This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Agbani Darego is my role model. She is just elegant and beautiful. She made headlines globally when she won Miss World in 2001… Amachukwu Amarachi As you read this piece, Daniella Orumwense, Miss Supranational Nigeria 2018 is in far away Poland for the 2018 edition of Miss Supranational International. In this chat with Entertainer, the newly crowned queen and graduate of Banking and Finance opens up on winning Miss Supranational Nigeria 2018, her challenges in camp, growing up, among other interesting issues. Growing up was beautiful because I was raised by my parents and it was with so much love, attention and affection. I wasn’t born with a silver spoon but I never lacked anything because my parents provided everything I needed. Yes, it has always been my dream to be a beauty queen. It all began when I was a tot. I was like wow! I was very excited, I felt really good and happy, I was on cloud nine! I couldn’t wrap my mind around it for a long while. Yes, I believed I would win. In fact, I came into the house with a winning mentality but at some point I got really scared and nervous because the competition was pretty tough; there were so many pretty and intelligent girls in camp. And then I also had challenges with the dance routines and rehearsals; it was quite stressful yet I pulled through but you know, like the popular saying goes ‘nothing good comes easy.’ My parents were supportive but dad has always been more supportive. In fact, he is my hero. I got my looks from both of my parents. Yes, I can bring back the crown. Honestly, I have no fears because I’m not new to pageants so I’m already experienced and I believe I can withstand anything. I’m expecting to have fun, make new friends and come out tops. I’m particularly passionate about female youths empowerment and I’m looking at the area of skills acquisition. A lot of our young girls are ill-equipped to cope with the challenges of today because of society’s perceptions of what a woman should be. Consequently, the need to empower and liberate our young girls cannot be overemphasised and that is why I will be focussing on female youth empowerment. Agbani Darego is my role model. She is just elegant and beautiful. She made headlines globally when she won Miss World in 2001 and ever since, I have always looked up to her but I also look up to the likes of Nse Ikpe Etim, Adesua Etomi and Richard Mofe Damijo and of course, the queen herself, delectable Mercy Johnson Okojie. In fact, if I ever make it to Nollywood, I’d like to star alongside these great thespians. Be yourself because everybody is unique. Always follow your dreams and never give up no matter how impossible it might seem, and please be prayerful. I studied Banking and Finance and I dream of become a successful entrepreneur. Beyond that I want to be a role model for the youths of our country and Africa at large; I want to mentor young people. In the next five years I see myself as a boss of my own and yes, this platform could be a window to an acting career but I have no intentions of joining Nollywood anytime soon. However, if an opportunity comes up I’d grab it.