This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. • Pray for peace in Rivers –Gov From Chris Anucha, Port Harcourt Chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Zamfara State Governor, Abdulaziz Yari, has commended Governor Nyesom Wike on his efforts at transforming Rivers State despite the current economic recession in the country. Governor  Yari   made  the commendation at the Government House, Port Harcourt, shortly  after  a closed-door meeting with Wike. Yari, who  said  he and others visited Wike in his capacity as governor and to  discuss issues concerning the NGF, also described the visit  as ‘brotherly.’ According to Yari, who is a chieftain  of the All Progressives Congress (APC): “We came here for friendship and private discussions, concerning the Nigerian Governors’ Forum. He is a member and we visit our members. When he has the  opportunity, Governor Wike will visit Kebbi and Zamfara states. This  is a  brotherly visit. “He took us round to see development projects and the way he is changing the face of  the Government House. Despite the fact that we are having a serious  economic  crisis on our hands, which we are trying  to manage, he has managed to come up with some programmes for the betterment  of Rivers people. This is commendable.” Meanwile, Wike said enemies  of the state who are stoking violence in areas where the rerun elections would hold would be disappointed. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed December 10 for the national and state Assemblies rerun elections. “I have to come to formally report to God that the enemies of the state are back. The way they were humiliated in 2015 and March 19, 2016 is the way they would be humiliated  on December 10, 2016. Pray for peace in the forthcoming rerun elections in the state,” Wike said, during  the  2016 Super Sunday Service of the Christ Apostolic Church at Emohua, yesterday. The governor said the resources of the state would always be used for the good of Rivers people. “Never again will Rivers resources be used to sponsor national politics. We will not take our money to play national politics. “Rivers is a Christian state and we owe nobody an apology for that. I want to reiterate our commitment to setting up a special intervention fund for churches to take care of their members who are in need,” he said. Governor Wike  later  led  his guests to  inspect  the ‘restoration and extension’ of the Government House (Brick House Complex), the Government House Chapel and security vans, to be  donated to the security agencies. The Chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum  was  accompanied  on the visit  by, the Kebbi State governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu  and  Senator Andy Uba.