This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.   One by One tells the story of an extraordinary team work by SWAGA’23. The journey of a thousand miles starts with a step and remember, slow and steady wins the race. The more reason, South West Agenda for Asiwaju otherwise called SWAGA, recorded another mile stone today, Teusday the 30th day of November. The extraordinary team work by SWAGA’23 team led by Senator Dayo Adeyeye made another achievement as the group routing for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for president come 2023 launched her door to door campaign in Iwo Federal Constituency in Osun State. It was an occasion field with pomp and pageantry, which will stand the test of time for any political movement to beat. Meanwhile, present at the event in Iwo, Osun State were eminent personalities in the political figure of the South west and Nigeria in general. Among the attendee’s are the chairman of the Central Working Committee, Sen Dayo Adeyeye, Hon Ayo Omidiran, Osun State Cordinator Apostle Toba Oke, Hon Oyetunde Ojo, Hon Ayo Afolabi, Hon Gafar Ameere , Hon Prince Tilewa Sijuade, Hon Adeoye Sakirat Adedayo and many other dons in the political system of the country. At the event, the team emphasized on the need to have a man of morals and value as the president come 2023, a Man who must be from the South West region, and no other name comes to the mouth but the name of The Jagaban of Nigeria, the Asiwaju of Lagos Senator Bola Tinubu. SWAGA 23 however urged the people of the twon to support the initiative, by unanimously supporting the movement, in her quest to stoically have Senator Bola Tinubu as the President of Nigeria come 2023. The event was however gladly accepted, as residents of the town gladly accepted and saw Senator Tinubu as the right man to continue the good work the Buhari administration had. Swagas Eagle which landed in Iwo Federal constituency with visitation to most traditional rulers in the kingdom also extended to Bode Osi, Ola Oluwa and Ileogbo, Ayedire LG of Osun State.