This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Emmanuel Adeyemi, Lokoja at least four people, including two soldiers died in a communal clash and auto crash, respectively in a communcal clash involving the Egbira-Mousu ethnic group and that of Bassa- Komo in Ikande community of Bassa Local Government area of Kogi State. Daily Sun learnt that the Igbira, who live at the river bank,  relocated to that community three months ago, owing to flood upsurge but were said to be reluctant to go back to their former abode when the flood finally subsided. This  development, it was learnt, made the Bassa-Komo  people, who are indigenes, felt that the Igbira wanted to take over their farmlands, a situation which later led to  confrontation between the two tribes. An eyewitness said trouble started on Sunday night when some youths in Ikande finally confronted the Igbira for reneging on an earlier agreement  which later led to hot argument which snowballed into serious crisis resulting  in burning of houses and killing of innocent people. In the crisis which later spread through the sleepy community, the eyewitness said no  fewer than 40 people were killed. It was also learnt that no fewer than 10 Hilux loads of soldiers and anti0riot policemen were later drafted to quell the crisis. One of the Hilux bus conveying some soldiers to the scene was said to have had a  burst tyre between Odenyin-Dekina town which led to an auto crash which reportedly killed two soldiers instantly, with some of their colleagues injured. Governor Yahaya Bello, in company with the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Abdullahi Chafe and some security chiefs in the state were said to have visited  the scene of the crisis where they reportedly pacified warring groups to sheathe their sword. Meanwhile, as at yesterday, the whole area was reportedly deserted as security personnel were said to have taken control of the area while several people were said to have been arrested, with the wounded receiving treatments in various hospitals . When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Willy Aya confirmed the incident.