From Molly Kilete, Abuja The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) has warned politicians, especially those seeking political offices and their supporters not to set the country on fire with their utterances and actions. It also warned political thugs and miscreants  planning to cause havoc during the 2023 general elections  to have a rethink or have themselves to blame. This is as it has disclosed that several personnel of the armed forces apprehended for conspiring  with kidnappers, bandits, terrorists and other criminals elements to jeopardise military operations, were facing court martial in different military  formations across the country. Chief of Defence Staff(CDS), Gen. Lucky Irabor, stated this at the Defence Headquarters bi-weekly media briefing, saying the military would not  fold its hands and watch miscreants, political thugs and unpatriotic politicians set the country on fire during the 2023 polls. Irabor, who joined the Director, Defence Media Operations, Major Gen Benard Onyeuko at the briefing on updates of military operations conducted across the country in Abuja, advised those contesting for positions and appointments to conduct themselves peacefully as men and women of honour. He said there would  be no position to aspire for if the country was set on fire. He said any political thug caught before,during and after the electioneering processes would be severely dealt with. The CDS appealed for peace to reign as the nation goes into another major election. On conspiracy by some military personnel with kidnappers, bandits, terrorists and other criminals elements to jeopardise military operations, the CDS said the accused  personnel  would be made to face the full wrath of law for being internal saboteurs within the military. He, however, refused to disclose the number of officers undergoing court martial. On attack on a Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State the CDS, said that efforts are in top gear to arrest perpetrators of the dastardly acts and bring them to justice.