This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC) has renewed its commitment to the implementation of the Nigerian Automotive Industry Development Plan (NAIDP) in the interest of the country’s auto sector. In addition, the council would team up with stakeholders towards ensuring early enactment of the auto policy into law by the National Assembly. NADDC director-general, Mr. Jelani Aliyu, made these known in Abuja recently while receiving in his office the directors of the Nigerian Automobile Manufacturers Association (NAMA), led by the Chairman, Mr. Tokunbo Aromolaran, the managing director of VON Automobiles, Lagos, and vice chairman, Alhaji Ibrahim Dutsinma Boyi, managing director of PAN Nigeria, during a courtesy visit. Aliyu emphasised that the council was also committed to putting in place an affordable vehicle financing scheme, which would enhance the capacity of Nigerians across the country to buy new made-in-Nigeria vehicles instead of patronising second-hand imported vehicles. He also said that he looked forward to working closely with NAMA and other stakeholders in the auto industry, with a view to making Nigeria a major vehicle manufacturing hub, not just to meet national demand but also for export. On his part, Aromolaran described the recent appointment of Aliyu as putting a round peg in a round hole and expressed the determination of the stakeholders to team up with him in moving the auto industry in Nigeria to greater heights. He said that the auto policy introduced about three years ago had succeeded in bringing back to life active assembly operations and new investments in the industry.  In his remarks, Boyi said, “Active government policy is what can make the auto industry succeed. The auto policy needs to be strengthened and there is need to bring more impetus into the enforcement of the implementation timelines of the policy. We know that it is not an easy challenge but we have confidence in you to apply necessary drivers of success.” Contacted for his comments on the association’s visit, the executive director NAMA, Mr. Remi Olaofe, expressed confidence in the leadership of the NADDC boss. Olaofe was hopeful that Aliyu would bring practical and pragmatic solutions to the challenges of the country’s automotive industry.  “I can see opportunities for symbiotic relationship between NADDC and NAMA in the actualisation of Nigeria’s auto policy,” he said.  The NAMA delegation to NADDC included the general manager (sales and marketing), PAN Nigeria, Bawo Omagbitse, and Babatunde Kolade of ANAMMCO.