This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. One of the honour and pride of a true Omoluabi according to the Yoruba  socio-cultural values is his/her ability to honor and stand by ones promises. It’s a highly esteemed value which the Yoruba’s as well as other ethnic groups attach much importance to. It’s one which has become the hallmark and a distinct feature of Hon. Ade Adeogun, lawmaker representation  Akoko southeast / southwest federal constituency in the house of representatives in Ondo state.   Highly noted as a grassroots politician with an impeccable basked with a high sense of goodwill, Hon. Ade Adeogun has continued to live true to amiable and distinctive character which defines him as an astute politician and public figure who is committed to the growth and development of his people.   The overriding purpose of politics and power in his mind is to incrementally elevate the society to higher levels of development and as well lift the people out of poverty.   Thus, his contributions to public discourse including the policies and programmes of government always shows that he is someone who commits time and energy to deep thinking. He has continually sought workable and viable ideas particularly for his Constituency and for the general progress of Nigeria. I make bold to say that in the present political era in Ondo state, Adeogun has proven himself to be one of those who pursue the tireless vision of Late Chief Obafemi Awolowo in politics, for he believes and sees politics as a call to serve and not to be served.   Adding to his amazing and endless list of antecedents and contributions towards the growth and development of his constituency, the lawmaker has recently intensified more by doling out more dividends of a pure democratic system to the members of his constituency. The lawmaker recently donated Agriculture loans to two hundred farmers in his constituency to cushion the effect of Covid-19 pandemic which greatly affected the economic lives of the people. According to the farmers who received the loans, the act was deemed unprecedented as they stated that no politician has ever done such for them in the constituency.   Adding to this, he gave out scholarship to students in tertiary institutions in the constituency while he also gave out capitals for business to rural women and men.   Also Hon. Ade Adeogun has seen to the construction of township roads in Oba Akoko, the construction of Agba Oka as well as the facilitation of employment opportunities for constituents members in various public and private sectors.   Further more as part of his drive to ensure the financial dependency and economic liberation of his constituency members, he has seen to the training and giving of grants as start-up capitals for over 100 constituency members.   Adding to his contributions towards the educational advancement of his people, he has offered a three years scholarship for 400 students at Upland College of Education, Ipesi Akoko.   The encomiums been showered to the lawmaker are unending, the HRH Oba Adebori Adeleye, Olubaka of Ibaka Land in his words greatly commended the lawmaker for his impressive strides which he described as uncommon.   The monarch in his words stated that his acts are worthy of emulations while also urging him never to relent in doing good for the greater benefit of all.   Mr. Aribisala Ojo, a farmer from the community in his appraisal of the lawmaker heartily appreciated Hon. Ade Adeogun for honoring his words. According to him,” This is the first time that we are witnessing such contributions to our welfare in our community”   His words were also corroborated by another farmer in the community, Mr. Adigun Lawal who stated that it’s never been this good for the people as their spirit has been lifted, they now have a renewed hope that more good will come from public officers such as Hon. Ade Adeogun. The message Adeogun is sending to people of his Constituency is clear and he is not ready to change it. His interest is simply to raise hope that has been dashed by bad leadership. A plan is in the offing to create an economic platform that will be mutually beneficial to all electorates and the society by giving directions for our people who have been badly plundered. Against all odds, Adeogun will continue to preach the possibility of the Akoko dreams. It does not matter what pessimists think or say, he is positively encouraged that our people will see better days if they faint not.     Femi Salako is the publisher of Triangle News Media.