Smarting from the impressive financial and other operational efficiency indices recorded from inception as non-interest banker two years ago, the Board and Management of TAJBank Limited on Wednesday highlighted plans to achieve  sustainable growth in the years ahead. The Managing Director/CEO of the bank, Mr. Hamid Joda, in his report at its 2022 Annual General Meeting (AGM) held in Abuja, attributed the growth of the non-interest lender so far, to management’s innovativeness in key areas of customer-centric service delivery powered by world-class technological solutions, human resource capacity building and shareholders and customers’ growing confidence. Specifically, Joda listed bank’s key objectives considered crucial to transforming TAJBank into an industry leader in the years ahead to include, securing a license to make TAJBank a national bank by the second quarter of 2022; and promoting financial inclusion by leveraging various channels and touch points, especially through its electronic platforms. In addition, he told the shareholders that one of their objectives was to make TAJBank to “be recognised as the market leader in the non-interest industry in Nigeria” and that another major strategy is to “expand its branch network across state capitals/major commercial centres in Nigeria to offer non-interest banking products and services to the underserved markets.” He also spoke on plans to grow the bank’s agency network to 100,000 agents by 2025 thereby reducing the financial exclusion rate; and to transform TAJBank into a leading digital bank in the country before the end of this year. He expatiated: “Our success in 2021 demonstrates that we not only kept our commitment to our stakeholders, but we are growing in a sustainable manner so that we can continue to enhance value to society while also generating the revenue our shareholders will appreciate. “We are constantly improving our operations so that we can respond to our clients’ ever-changing needs in their daily lives more efficiently and effectively. We are also pushing ourselves further beyond our comfort zones to provide a viable financial platform for all our stakeholders”, Joda added. Earlier in his statement, the bank’s Chairman, Alhaji Tanko Gwamma, reported that TAJBank attracted and retained more customers, recording exponential growth in its risk asset base, while committing to achieving all required regulatory metrics, as well as pursuing strong growth in its balance sheet items, among other imperatives. He enthused: “I am delighted to inform you that the future of the Bank is outstandingly bright and beautiful.