By Merit Ibe  Mouka has equipped its world-class laboratory with two additional machines. These machines were installed in a purpose-built facility within its headquarters in Lagos to give the mattress manufacturer a further edge above other players. Head of Manufacturing Operations of Mouka, David Onyemata, said: “At Mouka, quality is our watchword. We are constantly evaluating global  Research and Development (R&D) best practices in processing and mattress manufacture. Not only do we pay attention to every intricate detail when crafting our products, we also subject them to thorough test protocols to ensure we are really giving our consumers the best sleep products. This has led to upgrading our laboratory with state-of-the-art equipment.” The Quality Assurance, R&D, and Process Improvement Manager, Chimezie Nwosuagwu, shed light on the unique features of this technology, as well as the benefit to consumers. “With these machines, we can conduct holistic mattress performance assessment on mattresses. Before now, most quality tests were limited to lab sample foam sizes and not on full-sized mattresses. “We can now carry out a Mattress Durability Test, which shows us mattress resistance to deflection and deformation impact of human weight and movement on the properties of the mattress during long-term use. We can also carry out a Mattress Hardness Value & Firmness Rating Test, which indicates the load-bearing capacity of the mattress, i.e. what body weight can this mattress support during long-term use without affecting its performance. We can even carry out a Fatigue / Height Loss Test with these machines to predict the loss in load-bearing capability and change in mattress height due to repeated load. In his remark, the Managing Director, Mr Femi Fapohunda, also shared his views on this substantial investment by the company. “During my last press interview, I mentioned that Mouka is moving to even greater heights due to the strategic change in ownership to Dolidol, the market leader of the sleep industry in West Africa. I had said Dolidol brought technological expertise on board which would be evident for all to see.” He also said a few months ago, Mouka launched Nigeria’s first pillow made with patent biocrystal technology called the Mouka Bio-Pillow. Now the company is unveiling this major upgrade to their R&D facilities. According to Fapohunda, this is yet another step Mouka is taking to ensure that consumers’ needs and preferences are catered to within our product portfolio. The MD also affirmed that  Mouka would not rest on its oars; instead, it will continue to invest in technology to ensure its products are world-class and in a league of their own. According to research, Mouka remains number one in the sleep industry, adding comfort to the lives of millions of Nigerians for over 60 years. Its ability to maintain this leadership position is said to result from its unrivalled quality and the remarkable craftsmanship it employs in manufacturing its wide array of products. The brand has been recognised for its excellence by consumers, healthcare practitioners, regulatory bodies, and other credible associations. Commendations, awards, and certifications have been received from the likes of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy (NSP) and the National Association of Orthopaedic and Manual Therapists (NAOMT). Mouka unveils novel technology, the first of its kind in Nigeria, in furtherance of its quality mandate