Lagos State, yesterday, added another feather to its cap as it was certified as refugee-friendly city. This was made known when the Federal Commissioner, National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI), Imaan Sulaiman-Ibrahim, alongside other partners with Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu signed the dotted lines declaring the state as one of the cities with refugees. The NCFRMI chief described the event as a defining moment with global significance, adding that the signing underscores the place of refugees, asylum seekers, stateless persons and other Persons of Concern (PoCs) in the heart of Governor Sanwo-Olu. She said the state  has always been and particularly under the current leadership, has created inclusiveness and promoted hope for refugees and other PoCs through favourable policies in the areas of education, health and social services. With the signing, Lagos has joined other league of towns and cities in the world that have signed the Declaration. Sulaiman-Ibrahim acknowledged and applauded the resilience and doggedness of refugees, asylum seekers, stateless persons and other PoCs in Nigeria. She acknowledged that a good number of them were contributing to the national economy in areas such as healthcare, education, farming, trading, commerce, furniture making, tiling, construction, hair dressing, manufacturing, music and arts, etc. She encouraged them to sustain their resilience, doggedness and to keep honouring their obligations and perform their lawful responsibilities by respecting the laws, customs and norms of the land.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. She thanked the partners, the UNHCR, ECOWAS and other international and local partners for their support at all times in the concerted effort to ensuring that relief and succour is brought to all Persons of Concern. Sulaiman-Ibrahim further solicited support of other local and international bodies to assist and support the Commission towards implementing its humanitarian mandate. Minister for Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management, Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouq, called for more action to address discrimination against refugees in non-conflict zones, pointing out that the ongoing Russian-Ukrainian War had aggravated the crisis of refugee. Represented by Dr. Abubakar Suleiman, the minister said Nigeria would continue to respect the provisions of the 1951 Convention on Refugee, stressing that international best practice would be employed in handling the IDPs across the country. UNHCR Representative to Nigeria, Ms. Chansa Kapaya, said the commemoration was created as a day to build empathy, celebrate the strength and courage of refugees, while also recognising their resilience and taking action to solve their plight. She urged global leaders to step up and work together to solve the global refugee challenges. A Cameroonian refugee, Zemkwe Nekuna, a lawyer, who spoke on behalf of international refugees in Nigeria, delivered the appreciation note of IDPs to the government for offering them the platform to grow beyond their predicament. Governor Sanwo-Olu assured that the state would remain open and continue to provide non-discriminatory assistance to all displaced persons seeking safety of their lives from violent conflicts and disasters.