This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The NBBF Presidential aspirant, Engr Musa Kida has promised to pay equal attention to all the 6 geopolitical zones in Nigeria if he wins the top seat of the Federation. Ahead of the June 13 National Sports Federation elections slated for Abuja, Kida debunked rumours making the rounds about plans to relocate the administrative headquarter of the federation to Lagos upon assumption of office. He assured that for administrative purposes, the NBBF secretariat will remain in Abuja and that all zones will be given fair and equal attention in their quest to develop the game at the grassroots level. The Chairman of AMK (Ahmadu Musa Kida) Foundation said, “If you take a careful look at the programs that we have done in the past, virtually all the zones have been affected positively. From the North West, North Central, North East, South South, South West and South East, all have benefitted from AMK Foundation organized and sponsored programs. Kida revealed further that all the 6 zones will have a sense of belonging in the new board of the NBBF after the NSF elections. “We organized the 2016 Youth Basketball Camp that we did in collaboration with Isah Umar Foundation in Maiduguri nd partnered with Isah Umar Foundation for Camps and Clinics in the North West (2017). We held Basketball for Peace program in the North East and North Central States from 2010 till date as well as the 2016 South East Women’s basketball Championship in collaboration with Osita Nwachukwu (South East Rep NBBF Board) in Enugu. There was also the Ilupeju Basketball Classics between 2003 and 2012 that we co-sponsored and the provision of Educational and athletic Scholarships/training grants and support to many youths from across Nigeria to foreign institutions and training Camps since 2014 till date.” Indeed, we have shown that we are ready to make an impact at the national level.” Kida however stated that board members representing the zones will have an important role to play in linking their zones with the federation. “Zonal representatives will be saddled with the responsibility of liaising with the federation. Their responsibility will be to develop sustainable grassroots programs in all the states under their zones.” He concluded that zonal representatives will be present in their zones for easier administration and communication with the stake holders at the grassroots.