From Magnus Eze, Enugu A baseline assessment of 327 primary schools in Ebonyi State has reported rampant cases of overcrowded classrooms, inadequate number of teachers and dwindling productivity. Findings of the just concluded study, with support from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), indicated that reforms in the sector were long overdue. Executive chairman of the Ebonyi State Universal Basic Education Board (EBUBEB), Chief Hyacinth Ikpor, at the presentation of the report, harped on the need for partnership between government and teachers for the successful implementation of the state’s educational reforms. Ikpor stated that the “teachers must recommit themselves to improved standards of teaching, and rededicate themselves to their primary duties,” while government, on its part, will continue to improve teacher capacity-building, welfare and supervision. In his speech, the chairman of the state chapter of the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT), Comrade Francis Egwu, argued that reforms in the basic education sector must be based on facts, pointing out that Ebonyi State has gross inadequacy of teachers. “With the current embargo on employment, teachers who have resigned, retired or left the service have not been replaced. This leads to overcrowded classrooms and impairs the condition for effective learning,” he asserted. Executive director of Technology for Transformative Development Foundation (TTD), Ewah Otu Eleri, stated that the baseline assessment would allow the state government and education stakeholders to identify priority areas for intervention. He listed such priority areas to include the improvement of learning capabilities, access to learning materials and the overall learning environment. Other areas were teacher recruitment, training and improved conditions of service, adding “key investments are needed to bring Ebonyi schools to the 21st century. This includes the scaling up of school infrastructure, improved supply of school furniture, more conducive classrooms, water and sanitation and electricity in schools.” He lauded Governor David Umahi for his efforts in improving the outcomes of the state education system. A resource person, Chief David Nwachukwu noted while the state government had a primary responsibility, it was important for parents and host communities to step in and complement the efforts of the government. Nwachukwu canvassed for a strong partnership between communities and the government in the management of public primary schools, urging that parents and communities must not only show more interest in the provision of amenities but must also ensure that teachers took their responsibilities seriously. State Coordinator for USAID’s State Accountability, Transparency and Effectiveness Project, Dr. Sam Onyia encouraged education stakeholders to use the research for effective reforms of education service delivery.