From Abel Leonard, Lafia Red-hot striker, Abubakar Lawal, has said he is working hard to help his team, A.S. Kigali clinch the Rwandan FA Cup also known as the Peace Cup when they square up against 2021/22 Rwandan Premier League Winners, APR FC, on Tuesday night, 28th June, 2022, at the Amhahoro Stadium, in Kigali, the Capital City of Rwanda. Lawal who scored eight goals and assisted ten at the just-concluded Rwandan elite league, in an exclusive telephone interview with sporting Sun from his base in Kigali, on Monday, 27th June, 2022, said that his sole aim is to see his club win the FA title and pick the only CAF Co Federation’s Cup slot available for the country. According to the former Nasarawa United attacking sensation, missing out on winning this year’s sixteen-team Rwandan Primus National League after they finished third behind APR FC and Kiyovu FC with 49 points has made everyone in the Club to turn their focus on the Cup final. “We had a great spell last season, even though it was partially marred by the dreaded Coronavirus pandemic. We played in the CAF Confederation Cup, and it was a wonderful experience for everyone. “But this season, we struggled in the League which was why we finished where we found ourselves on the table. “However, we got to the final of the Peace Cup and this is a golden opportunity for us to return to the Continent again. “We are playing against a difficult side. APR are the current champions of the League, and you know what that means. “But, we are determined to win on Tuesday, Insha Allah! We will give that final all it takes – that’s the only consolation we can give to ourselves and our passionate fans and supporters”, he concluded. Since joining the East-Central African club in a two-year deal, the former Nigeria Junior International has gone on to score a total of fifteen goals in all competitions, starting from the 2020/21 Season. He was the second highest goal scorer for his Club at the end of the 2021/22 league campaign, and his performance has continued to catch the attention of clubs around the world, especially those in Europe and other African countries.