From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Enugu The popularity of Peter Obi, Presidential candidate of Labour Party in next year’s general elections has grown by the day to the point that the former Anambra State Governor is arguably a religion in Nigeria today, particularly in the South East. At the moment, any negative comment against Obi is mete with fierce attacks by the politician’s teeming supporters and followers, who call themselves ‘Obidients.’  In the main, a coalition of Igbo youths under various platforms has vowed to deal decisively with those they called political jobbers in Igbo land. They found it disturbing and unacceptable for any South Easterner to speak against Obi’s aspiration noting that it was the only hope for the region to actualize its presidential ambition in 2023. They cautioned the likes of Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi; former Governor of old Anambra State, Chief Jim Nwobodo and the Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry Enugu Nigeria (AMEN), Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka and others who had made negative and derogatory statements against Obi and the South East agenda. The youths called on them to apologise or be ready to contend with them. Disturbed by such pejorative comments, National Vice President (South East), National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), Williams Nnonyelum, told Daily Sun that youths of the zone will not allow them derail the brightest opportunity of the zone: “What I want to say about our people speaking or working against South East chances in 2023 presidential election is one, we have decided to most times go by peace as youths because each time they say this kind of thing and you attack them, they call you thugs and other names. And these are people we call our fathers like some of the Governors in the states, including the popular man of God with large followers, and former Governor Jim Nwobodo. “We will find a way to meet them all of them first, before we go against them because we definitely will go against them. We are not going to relent on our efforts on having the South East win the Presidency. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video “Two, we now have an option, we have only an option and that option is Labour Party and former Governor of Anambra, Peter Obi who is very credible and can be trusted. “Our stand is that the Labour Party candidate is still our choice. I know in every electioneering process, from the day there is an intention that you want to run an election to the day that election is conducted, the youths play 90 to 92 per cent role, so, those who are against the rights of the South East, the warning is, we will mobilize the voters in their environment against them because we know votes will count. “We want those that have made statements, if you know you are one of them; you need to sincerely apologize, if you don’t do that, we know how to get to such people and they won’t like it. So, it is a warning we are giving to some of them because of the respect we have for them. I don’t think they would want to lose the respect we have for them and start treating them the way they should be treated because they are enemies of the South East.” For the Coordinator, The Professional Christian Youth Leaders Forum (TPCLF), Dr. Emeka Ejim, the actions of some Igbo political leaders over the 2023 election and the South East agenda, are condemnable, hence, he decided to speak to their consciences. Ejim who noted that the people of South East have been short-changed, marginalized and relegated to the background in Nigeria declared that enough was enough: “Have we not paid our dues in all the nook and crannies of Nigeria? “Enough of this sitting on the fence…Any relay race without the baton bearer extending his hand to hand over the baton to the genuine follower will be disqualified. We have followed, the Igbo have queued but alas they jumped the queue and have handed over the baton to who they wished. Many of our leaders jumped parties but were rightly disappointed by their dream godfathers. Now, Obi is on the stage, let’s do the needful. Let our conscience rule us.” Also, leader of Youths for a New Nigeria (YaNN), Ikechukwu Ehibe told Daily Sun that Igbo youths were ready to confront those he called saboteurs and urged them to steer clear of the South East project. Ehibe who recalled how a friend of his had challenged him that Igbo political merchants will not support the South East agenda, regretted that the prediction eventually came to pass: “We are not forcing them to support the Igbo agenda but they will attract the wrath of Igbo youths if they ever speak against Obi and Igbo interest. They better keep quiet if they don’t want to support Igbo and Nigeria interest.”