As a way to acknowledge teacher’s contribution to education in Edo State, Aitah’s Golden Arrow has appreciated students, teachers and schools for their participation and effort in the just concluded grand finale of Aitah’s Golden Arrow quiz competition. The organisation’s goal is to serve as the springboard for young dreams, and a play ground where stakeholders in the educational sector are duly rewarded for their diligence and dedication to the growth of education in Edo. The 2022 quiz competition featured the presentation of cheques to students who have shown academic excellence during the quiz and emerged winners in the Art and Science categories, while their teachers received cheques of the cash prize won in each category. According to Lawrence Itoro, who represented the convener ‘Aitah’s Golden Arrow is on a mission to award excellence in secondary school, where teachers, students and schools are rewarded for their efforts” The cash prizes of N1 million each were awarded to University Preparatory Secondary School (UPSS) who came top in Science and Baptist High School in Arts. The first runner-up positions went to Mount Camel Secondary school (Arts) and University Preparatory Secondary Science (Science) with Seven Hundred and Fifty Thousand Naira each. The second runner-up featured the University of Benin Teaching Hospital Secondary School (Arts) and Divine Wisdom Secondary School (Science) with Five Hundred Thousand Naira each. Eddy Aitah, the convener of AGR urged students to be ambassadors of Aitah’s Golden Arrow and endeavour to move the motion for change in education in all capacities and encouraged teachers to continue to raise soldiers who will spearhead the fight for educational reform in Edo state’ The event featured awards to schools and certificates of excellence to participating students. Cash prizes were rewarded to teachers who trained the students for this competition and donation of computers and other gadgets to schools who emerged winners in arts and science respectively. Aitah’s Golden Arrow quiz competition is the major instrument for achieving our goals and a neutral playground free from political interference where students are awarded based on merit, the academic performance of students and the positive contribution of stakeholders. The organisation urges parents of students to make good use of the cash gifts for the educational needs of their wards. Utah’s Golden Arrow promises a bigger and better event next year.