From Molly Kilete, Abuja  The Army Headquarters in Abuja said soldiers on internal security operations intercepted a vehicle loaded with assorted explosives and ammunition along at Utanga village, near Obudu Mountains in Cross Rivers State. Director, Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu, who made the disclosure, said the vehicle, a Toyota Camry car with registration number JAL 492 AA, was intercepted along the Utanga village by soldiers from 13 Brigade operating under 82 Division, Nigerian Army. Nwachukwu, in a statement, said the soldiers deployed at Forward Operating Base Amana, had attempted to stop the vehicle at their checkpoint, but the driver sped off, forcing the soldiers to open fire on the tyres and immobilised the vehicle. He listed the weapons found on the vehicle after a thorough search by the soldiers to include 72 Improvised Explosive Device chargers, 121 Dynamite Liquid, 200 rounds of 7.62 mm (NATO), 82 rounds of 7.62 mm (Special) ammunition,  military uniforms and kits. The statement reads: “Troops of 13 Brigade operating under command of 82 Division, Nigerian Army, on Tuesday, June 21, 2022, intercepted a Toyota Camry car with registration number JAL 492 AA,  ladened with assorted ammunition while en route Utanga village towards Obudu Mountains in Cross River State. “Troops deployed at Forward Operating Base Amana attempted to stop the vehicle at their checkpoint, but the driver evaded the checking and zoomed off. The driver’s recalcitrance compelled the troops to open fire on the tyres of the vehicle, thereby, immobilising it.  “A thorough search conducted on the vehicle revealed it was conveying 72 Improvised Explosive Device chargers, 121 Dynamite Liquid, 200 rounds of 7.62 mm (NATO) and 82 rounds of 7.62 mm (Special) ammunition. Other items recovered in the intercepted vehicle are military uniforms and kits. (Continued on www.sunnewsonline.com) “Members of the public are, please, urged to continue to support our troops with credible information that will lead to stemming the tide of insecurity across the country.”