From Chijioke Agwu, Abakaliki The Department of State Services (DSS) yesterday cleared the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) spokesman in Ebonyi State, Chika Nwoba, following an investigation it launched over his ‘Biafra wedding cake’ saga. Mr Nwoba had, last Saturday, during his wedding unveiled a cake which was designed with Biafra insignia, including flag and coat of arms of the defunct republic. The picture of the cake trended on social media at the weekend, which attracted the attention of the DSS who invited him to appear at its state headquarters, onTuesday. Mr Nwoba, while announcing the invitation, said he had sympathy for Biafra agitation, but was against violence of any kind being used by some of the agitators. He stated that he made his wedding cake with Biafra insignia, to show solidarity to the Biafra course. “I actually did it to pass a message, that no matter our political inclinations, we still have the interest of Igbo nation at heart. It is to show my love and my commitment to ensuring that the gospel for the creation of a country of Igbo extraction, comes to fruition. So, I’m a fan of Biafra agitation. That’s why I said, okay, in order to contribute to the Biafra struggle, I have to make my cake, giving it a Biafra colour. I’m not against Biafra agitation, but I’m against going about it violently. I did it just to show my concern,”he said. But speaking to journalists, yesterday, Mr Nwoba said the security agency has cleared him of any wrongdoing, after asking him some questions. He said he was asked to go on Tuesday and return yesterday, after which he was told he was free. He said: “I went there yesterday (Tuesday) and responded to their questions after which I was asked to go and come back today (Wednesday). I went back today and they said I am free to go, that I have not done anything wrong. I just left their office some moments ago,” he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.