From Molly Kilete, Abuja The Police Force Headquarters in Abuja is set to try 130 officers for various offences, as the Force Disciplinary Committee (FDC) commences sitting in Abuja. The officers to be tried include two Commissioners of Police, three Assistant Commissioners of Police, 11 Chief Superintendents of Police, 19 Superintendents of Police, 18 Deputy Superintendents of Police, and 77 Assistant Superintendents of Police. Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, who made the disclosure, said the trial followed the inauguration of the FDC by the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali, to review disciplinary cases instituted against senior police officers of the rank of Assistant Superintendent of Police and above, to determine their culpability or otherwise. Adejobi, in a statement, also said the Nigerian police was set to launch a digital solution to ensure standardisation and upgrade of the Force’s identification system, to be known as e-Warrant Card. The e-Warrant Card, according to Adejobi, would provide seamless identification of officers across the country and eliminate the possibility of criminal elements presenting fake identity cards at police stations personating themselves to be police officers. Adejobi’s statement made available to Daily Sun reads: “The Force Disciplinary Committee (FDC) has convened at the Inspector-General of Police Conference Hall, Force Headquarters, Abuja, to review disciplinary cases instituted against senior police officers of the rank of Assistant Superintendent of Police and above, in order to determine their culpability or otherwise. The FDC which comprises the seven Deputy Inspectors-General of Police as arbiters and the Assistant Inspector-General of Police Force Secretary as its secretary, began its session on Tuesday, June, 28, 2022, and will hold till Friday, July 1, 2022. A total of 130 senior police officers from all over the country, with Pending Disciplinary Matters (PDM), will appear before the Committee within this period. The officers comprise two Commissioners of Police, three Assistant Commissioners of Police, 11 Chief Superintendents of Police, 19 Superintendents of Police, 18 Deputy Superintendents of Police, and 77 Assistant Superintendents of Police. Upon conclusion of proceedings and hearing of evidence, recommendations on each matter will be communicated to the Police Service Commission (PSC) for consideration. The Inspector-General of Police has expressed confidence in the Deputy Inspectors-General of Police overseeing the Force Disciplinary Committee, to ensure dispensation of justice in all causes before them. The IGP equally assures that the Force is deliberately committed to cleaning up its house for a more professional and citizens-focused policing system.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. In another development, the Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, has equally announced that the Nigeria Police Force is set to launch a digital solution to ensure standardisation and upgrade of the Force identification system to be known as e-Warrant Card.