This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. TONY JOHN, Port Harcourt The Sole Administrator, Rivers State Waste Management Agency (RIWAMA), Felix Obuah, has urged civil servants in the State to support Governor Nyesom Wike’s efforts to checkmate the spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in the state. Obuah stated this at the weekend, shortly after monitoring the decontamination exercise at the Rivers State Government Secretariat, in Port Harcourt. Obuah, who was the immediate past chairman of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, urged civil servants to support efforts of Governor Wike in checkmating the spread of the ravaging Coronavirus pandemic, in Rivers. RIWAMA Sole Administrator noted that the governor was prepared to ensure that the Coronavirus pandemic was contained to avoid further spread in the state. He said civil servants from grade levels one to 10 were directed after the index case to remain at home from March 27, 2020, until further notice. “This and many more including the compulsory wearing of face masks were necessary measures taken by the governor to ensure that the Coronavirus pandemic is checkmated in the state following the first index case of a young lady, who was later found to have arrived Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, sometime in February this year after a visit to France”, Obuah disclosed. According to the RIWAMA Sole Administrator, the flag-off of the decontamination of public places in Rivers launched by the governor on Monday, June 1, 2020, at Government House, Port Harcourt, entered 18 consistent and successful days of decontamination exercise of major public places in Port Harcourt and Obio/Akpor Local Government Areas of the State, with the decontamination of the State Government Secretariat, Port Harcourt. The decontamination team has so far decontaminated some major markets, parks, schools, churches, State Secretariat of the Nigeria Union Of Journalists (NUJ), the Port Harcourt Pleasure Park, State Secretariat of Nigeria Bar Association, NBA, Port Harcourt City Local Government Council, the popular Slaughter Market, major bus stops, among several public places. He explained: “The decontamination exercise continues in the State. The decontamination comprised of three steps which will be carried out simultaneously namely: fumigation of the environments, steam spraying which contains disinfectants that can combat the virus, and this will be followed by the disinfectant smoke spray”. The RIWAMA Sole Administrator commended the foresight of Governor Wike for the decontamination as the best option for now, since there is no vaccine yet for the permanent cure against the virus. He urged civil servants as well as citizens to support Governor Wike in his bid to ensure that the spread of the ravaging Coronavirus pandemic is largely checkmated. He also urged them to continue to practice hand hygiene, respiratory etiquette and social distancing.