By Samuel Opaniyi  They have come again From their bloody wars Their boots full of pride Pride of lies and failure Pride of lies to bribe our minds like a     bride. They have come again With their luxury gifts, Gifts to mask our penury In the presence of their cameras.  When you ask them Ask them of what they’ve brought in    their baskets They’ll tell you, it’s full of Akara, beans    cake covered, Covered with stones and bullets, Bullets shot at us on our roads and on    the rail. Stoning us in the heart, The heart of our innocence Given to them as our pride. They have come again Coming to us in their white Agbada White, which never represents the    true colour of their minds White Agbada, housing their     protruding bellies Full of rots, rots derived from our worth  White Agbada, standing for their wealth To slap our deaths, Deaths of grieve and poverty Poverty caused by their liberty,  Liberty stolen from us for their puberty Yes! They have come again Like before, and before, and before. Coming again to us like an arrogant     husband  To his long forsaken wife; To swim his wondering penis in her    deluded vagina And take her pride without    consideringher price. They have come again With their sweet lexis In borrowed baban riga from the North On an Eastern body; In their borrowed Ankara from the    West On a Northern body; In their borrowed Isiagu from the East On a Western body: All a game of deceit to repeat our defeat  They have come again To bestow upon our heads Another pots of poverty and dusty     peace in quatrains. In pieces they’ve cut us and rent us to    our neighbours To pay their traceless debts _ As a property of poverty to our  children unborn. Oh! They have come again With their theatre of words On their constructed stage of blood, Blood, never theirs, but ours In their putrefying tongues To leave us delusional as usual, As usual yet, not mutual. Yes! They have come again And they’ll continue to come If we do not stop them. This time around, stop them. Stop them _ reject their lexis And demand for their scrotum  Before you assure them your PVC.  Stop them _ reject their Naira And demand for their castle. Stop them _ give no face to them  But wait to put up your votes To decide their fates And give ourselves the face we deserve.