From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirants of South East extraction have pleaded with President Muhammadu Buhari, to consider picking one of them as the party’s consensus candidate. In a letter the aspirants sent to President Buhari signed by Ikeobasi Mokelu, Christopher Onu, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, Governor Dave Umahi, and Uju-Ken Ahanenye, they thanked the northern governors and political leaders for standing firm on power shift to the South. While urging him to intervene in picking a consensus candidate, the South East aspirants agreed to respect the decision of President Buhari on the issue. “We the undersigned, who are aspirants to the office of President on the platform of our party the APC, write to commend your fatherly leadership of our country and our party. “We also commend your unequivocal approval of the position of the 14 Progressive governors from Northern Nigeria, to ensure that your successor is elected from the southern part of Nigeria. We also commend the governors for this patriotic and unifying stand. United we stand – Our unity in diversity has been the rallying point of all patriots. “Your Excellency, we most humbly request that this position of our brothers from the North be deepened and made even more wholesome by further zoning this position to the South East. “We are all aware that no President can emerge without the support of various geopolitical zones and without the express collaboration of our brothers and sisters from other zones of Nigeria. “With our Convention at hand, your kind directive for the deepening of unity in diversity championed by our founding fathers solely on the basis of strengthening national unity and cohesion and for rousing victory at the 2023 elections, are stated objectives in your speeches to the Progressive governors forum, the APC aspirants dinner and the meeting of APC stakeholders. “Furthermore, we are humbly requesting that you consider and pick your chosen candidate from the South East aspirants in line with your stated objectives of handing over to trusted party loyalists. “We humbly seek your Execeliency’s prompt and kind intervention to enable the party delegates to assume proper guidance. Please accept as always, our continuing loyalty and assurances of our esteem regards and obedience to whichever candidate your Excellency deems fit and appropriate to adopt as the candidate of the party,” the letter read.