This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa   Due to severe cases of despoliation of the ecosystem and its devastating effect on the lives of oil producing communities in Bayelsa State, the Health of Mother Earth Foundation (HOMEF), an environmental rights group, has trained no fewer than 60 residents of oil bearing communities in the state.   The Executive Director of HOMEF, Dr Nnimmo Bassey who spoke to a cross section of volunteers during the training over the weekend in Ikarama community, Yenagoa Local Government Area said that a safe environment was fundamental to support lives and livelihoods.   According to him there was the need for people, who resided near oil and gas fields, to remain vigilant in conserving the environment.   While urging the people to ensure that the economic interests of investors did not threaten the environment, he stressed the need to raise volunteers who would defend the ecosystem from degradation and pollution.   Bassey disclosed that the Ikarama community is the worst hit when it comes to oil spill in the Niger Delta region.   He advised them to develop their skills to ‘listen to the environment’ as it responded and spoke by responding to human activities that distort the ecosystem.   Bassey made reference to an incident where a youth leader of the community wanted to use his farm for fish farming, only to find out that oil was oozing from the ground.   “A community youth invested resources to excavate his fish farm only to find out that oil was coming out from the ground. He did this last year and this year, it is shocking the level of operation has not driven the polluters to action immediately.   “We heard Shell has come here to take samples but up till now, we have not had the result released. We want to be sure that the result should be released as they are ready.   “The Ministry of Environment, the National Oil Spill Detection Response Agency (NOSDRA), and those from the Federal ministry should be involved too.   “We are having contamination not just from this location here, it is very important for the oil community because we are having oil facilities that transverse Ikarama community and other Niger Delta communities,” he said.   He recommended clean up for the people that have been badly affected by oil spill cases, in the Niger Delta region.   Also speaking, Mr Alagoa Morris, an environmentalist, said that monitoring the environment demanded factual and evidence-based data collection, recording and reporting.   On his part, Mr Benjamin Enebiri, the owner of the fish farm where oil was coming from the ground, expressed sadness over the situation, calling on Shell to do the needful.