From Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has reemphasised that the Dr. Nabo Graham Douglas Campus of the Nigerian Law School in Port Harcourt has been provided to be a self-sustaining institution. Governor Wike, yesterday, handed over the certificate of occupancy (C of O) of adjoining property to the campus acquired by the state government to achieve the mandate to the Chairman of the Council of Legal Education, Emeka Ngige, SAN. The presentation was made when Governor Wike conducted Ngige, Director General of Nigeria Law School, Isa Hayatu Chiroma, and other dignitaries round structures within the law campus that were completed and ready for formal handover. Governor Wike said the acquisition of the adjoining property would enable operators of the campus to use them for sundry commercial and revenue generating activities to meet the financial needs of the law school. “We are giving the property to you for the purposes of making some revenue to run this campus. Whatever revenue derived is to be utilised for this campus alone. “Very soon, the state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Zacchaeus Adangor, and the director general will meet to prepare a memorandum of understanding. It will ensure you won’t take revenue from here to subsidise other campuses. Any money you make here, put it here in this campus.” He also told them that with the construction work on all structures in the campus completed, the state government awaits the Council of Legal Education to choose a date when it desire the campus to be formally handed over. In his response, Ngige said they were on inspection of the facility and were amazed at what they have seen. “Last July 27, 2021 was when we came for the foundation laying ceremony and His Excellency promised this project will be delivered in one-year. Behold, today is June 27, not up to July, yet and he had delivered. “Recall that when we were doing the ground breaking ceremony, His Excellency promised that every month, he will give this campus N10 million for four years, and will be given in advance, that is about N480 million to run this institution. “When I learnt that he had acquired adjoining property; houses, shopping malls and other business facilities for the law school to rent out to raise revenue to run this institution. I can tell you it is unparalleled,” he said. Chiroma described the Graham Douglas Campus as the best and mother of all law campuses in Nigeria. “On behalf of the council, we are very grateful for a promise made and promise kept. This is the turning point in the history of legal education in Nigeria,” he said. During the inspection of the lecturers quarters in New Government Residential Area in Port Harcourt, former president of Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Onueze C. J. Okocha, said Governor Wike was a performer who keeps promises and delivered the Port Harcourt Law School campus that is tastefully constructed and furnished before the time he set for himself. Also speaking, former NBA president, Okey Wali,  said Governor Wike has done this to show he is a lover of democracy and for promotion of the judicial system in Nigeria. Adangor described the project as historic and iconic because there is nothing like it across the country. He said Governor Wike has provided it as a commitment to advance legal education in the country.