This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Juliana Taiwo- Obalonye, Abuja PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari returned to Nigeria, yesterday, after 14 days va­cation in the United King­dom. The presidential jet touched down at exactly 5:33pm at the Presidential wing of the Nnamdi Aziki­we International Airport, Abuja. He stepped out of the plane at 5:42pm and in­spected the guard of hon­our mounted. Thereafter, he shook hands with gov­ernors, members of the Federal Executive Council, Service Chiefs, Inspector General of Police, Solo­mon Arase and presidential aides who turned up to wel­come him. When asked by newsmen how he was feeling, he re­plied, “you saw me when I was going and you saw me when I came back. You can assess the situation your­self. “I’m okay, you have seen me inspecting the guards of honour.” When another journalist asked him in Hausa how he was feeling, he replied, “do you want to wrestle me? You can see I am taller than you.” His Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina reiterated an earli­er position that Buhari did not go on medical vacation but merely followed the advice of his physician and an Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) specialist. He said the President is fit and will resume today. Also at the presiden­tial wing to welcome the president were ministers of environment, transport, Niger Delta affairs, water resources, agriculture, bud­get and national planning, Attorney General and Min­ister of Justice, Minister of State for Education, Minis­ter of State for Budget and National Planning, Min­ister of state for Foreign Affairs, the Chief of Staff, among others. Buhari left Nigeria on June 6 for a 10-day vacation in the United Kingdom. He also consulted an Ear, Nose and Throat specialist for a persistent ear infection, on the advice of both his per­sonal physician and an ENT Specialist in Abuja. Last Thursday, lVice President Yemi Osinbajo, told State House corre­spondents shortly before the commencement of the National Economic Coun­cil (NEC) meeting that his boss would now return yes­terday. This is Buhari’s second vacation since he assumed office as President on May 29, 2015. He spent his first vacation from February 5-10 also in London. He had earlier said the doc­tors he had been consulting since the 1970s are based in London. Before leaving the country, he wrote to the National Assembly to official inform the lawmak­ers of his vacation andindi­cated that his deputy would perform his duties. Meanwhile, former gov­ernor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu has expressed happiness on Buhari’s re­turn. Speaking in Abuja yes­terday, Kalu said the presi­dent’s return was a wel­come development. He and added that Buhari’s return was even more cheery since he has confirmed he was okay. “I am happy that president Buhari has returned after spending 13 days in London. This has doused whatever anxiety that may have arisen since Vice President Yemi Osin­bajo said, last Wednesday, that he would not return last Friday but yesterday. I welcome President Bu­hari back and wish him the best in the arduous task of making Nigeria great,” says Kalu The former governor, urged Nigerians to support him in the task for nation building. “Nigerians must support president Buhari. The task of nation building is not only for the president or the people in govern­ment. It is for all Nigerians. We must support the ederal Government in the effort to reposition Nigeria.