From Gyang Bere, Jos The Plateau State High Court sitting in Jos on Thursday sentenced three persons to death by hanging for stabbing one Joseph Gonsum to death. Justice Arum Ashom, who delivered the judgement, sentenced Mr Terry Kefas the 1st accused, Samson James and Patrick Nyam, for stabbing Josep to death on December 25, 2015, on grounds of a two-count charge. The suspects were accused of committing a culpable homicide at Dada Biu in Jos North Local Government Area of Plateau State which is punishable under the section of the Penal code cap 89 laws of Northern Nigeria, 1963. They were said to have stabbed the deceased, Joseph Gonsum with a knife on his stomach with the knowledge that death would be the consequence of their actions. The prosecuting counsel, Assistant Director Citizens Rights and Law Reform, Barr John Mantua, described the judgement as justice to the society, having prosecuted the case for about 6 years. “We have done our best as prosecution counsel, we give in our very best to see that the matter was prosecuted. We appreciate the court seeing reasons with our witnesses that we presented. “However, in the end, this matter was decided in favour of the state wherein those who stand trial now convict are sentenced to death.” He explained further that “this is a matter that has four (4) defendants which one passed away in the cause of this trial and today we appreciate God for the judgment is a justice to the society.” Mantu noted that the law is right in the case of culpable homicide which said once there is a conviction, it is a death sentence. He said at the process of prosecution, about five witnesses were called who all testified on their behalf and the case has been lingering for the past six years. The Defence counsel, Barr David Adudu explained that the suit is between the state and three other defendants and vowed to appeal the case. “In the cause of the conviction, the judge found the defendants guilty of their offences which they were prosecuted for the crime and in view of this the judge sentence them based on the law.” He added that as the defence counsel “we are not satisfied with the judgment just delivered by Honourable justice Arum Ashom so we have to start the process of appealing the judgment by commencing the transmission of the appeal process immediately,” he stated.