From Jude Chinedu, Enugu   Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry Enugu, Nigeria (AMEN) Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka has told his followers that he will only return to the adoration ground on the orders of the Bishop Calistus Onaga.   Mbaka also pleaded with the faithful to stop attacking Onaga as any attack on the Catholic Bishop of Enugu Diocese is also an attack on himself.   Mbaka said this on Wednesday when he made an unscheduled appearance at the adoration ground to address his followers.   Thousands of adoration faithful had gathered at the adoration ground on Wednesday despite a directive by the ministry that there would not be services in the ground till further notice.   Addressing the faithful, Mbaka said he came out to let them know that he is alive and healthy. He told them to continue to pray for him, assuring that the current setback will end in victory.   He informed the wailing congregants that he had gone for a personal retreat and would return stronger. Mbaka also urged them to pray for the Bishop and Peter Obi whom he described as a son who should be supported by every Igbo.   “I’m a priest of the Catholic Church and the Bishop is my father. I swore an oath to obey him and his successors. I cannot do otherwise.   “I have come to bless you and to dismiss you. I don’t want you to go to the main road. I don’t want you to be pugnacious or to be cantankerous. I don’t want the adorers to be violent. I don’t want Adoration people to be classified as bandits for we’re not bandits. We’re obedient children of God. We love the mother church and the mother church loves us so much.   “We appreciate our Bishop and henceforth, I want to order everybody here to stop Insulting the Bishop. We can’t forget all his goodness to us. This is a time we show our Bishop love. Speak good of him, don’t write anything negative of him. To insult the Bishop is to insult me directly.   “I will never come out here for Mass until the Bishop approves it. Don’t ask me why, because I’m a Catholic priest, I have to obey. I don’t know the date of my return. Only the Bishop will decide.”