“I give God the glory that my son who had a mental sickness is now healed after using your oil in praying for him. His admission that was about to be deferred by one year as advised by a doctor has been reversed that he can now continue his education unhindered. Praise God and may God bless you.” – Mr. Ajibola 08033190218 (Testimony republished) “My life and my business were in a shambles. I thought I was going to die because everything around me failed me beyond measure. My business partners who owed me never wanted to pay me. Satan and all his demons were gathering in my house at midnight. By exactly 12 midnight every day, my sitting room would be vibrating with noise; you would be hearing voices but not see anybody. This has happened for over eight years despite the number of prayer-cum-family liberation conducted in my house. My children could not pass any examination due to constant demonic manipulation and constant sickness. My soul was willing to die due to lack of hope and help. But when I started reading your article, I read many testimonies of what God is doing through your oil and I contacted you for the solution to my problems. When you instructed me to order the oil, I delayed due to doubt. When I finally obeyed you and ordered the oil, God brought my freedom through it. When I used the oil and prayed as you instructed me, all those that were indebted to me called and paid me my money. My house is now free from demonic attacks. Spiritual meetings no longer hold in my house. My children are all healthy. My business is restored. The one that amazed me most was the healing of the sickness that defied medical treatment. God be with you, Prof.” – Mr. Samuel Okafor (Contact withheld) For those using mystical mirror, they will see who is responsible for whatever they seek. If one is seeking who killed either his father or mother, the moment your consciousness is exposed to the mirror, the evil forces will expose many things about your request. Indeed, you will get to know who killed your mother or who is responsible for your failures in life. In the mystical mirror, you will ultimately meet with some higher spirits who will reveal what you desire to know and finally enslave you. They establish mystical contact with the viewer such that makes the viewer to experience lost of memory and begin to misbehave after viewing the mirror. Some have died through this process. I recently ministered to a young lady who was accused of killing her husband because the man desired and wanted to marry another. Though the woman was innocent, the entire members of the family decided to visit the omniscient mirror in order to find out if the lady was truly innocent. The lady’s father-in-law initiated the movement. They went and discovered that the lady was very innocent but, unfortunately, when the contact was subtly established, her father-in-law lost memories and became mad. Every effort made to bring him to a state of normalcy proved abortive. The madness-cum-mental disorder continued until he was introduced to me by his daughter-in-law. I, therefore, informed them of the danger involved in seeking solution outside Christ. I again introduced them to my anointing oil, which he used and became normal. Many people do not know why the viewer of such mirror usually loses his/her memory. The reason is because the evil spirit, by the incantations involved, automatically opens the person’s third eye and establishes immediate contact with the physical unit of the person. This unwarranted contact has madness as its resulting effect. Through the power of Christ, the person could be set free and begin to enjoy his life once again. There is nothing Christ cannot do for his children. The Apostles witnessed a particular man who was a great sorcerer and consequently bewitched the people of Samaria. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. They gave him great attention, which in turn attracted respect, hence, Simon was posing as a great man of God. In recognition to this, the Samarians confessed, “This man is the great power of God”… Acts 8:10. By this confession the people of Samaria were of the conviction that Simon was using divine power of God in working “miracles.” This conviction was hitherto nourished by the solution many of them received from and through the power that worked through Simon. He claimed to be of God; as a result many believed him. Today, there are many prophets, pastors, and evangelists, to mention but a few, that are workers of iniquity. They are like Simon the sorcerer who posed as a real man of God but inwardly was a wolf. Their intension is to bewitch and hypnotize people with their sorcery that is coated in prophesy. Today, many sorcerers are here and they are posing as agents of light, commanding crowds and deceiving people with false solution that does not last. It came to pass that when Philip preached the gospel in Samaria, the power of the gospel produced result to the extent that many were converted to Christ. Among those converted was the sorcerer, Simon, and other notable Samarians. They witnessed great signs and wonders done through Philip and, as a result, enjoyed their salvation in Christ. When the apostles in Jerusalem heard that the gospel had entered Samarian, they sent Peter and John for the consolidation of the word. When they arrived Samaria, they demonstrated the power of God by laying on of hands, which resulted in the outpouring of the Holy Ghost. Many of them that believed received the Holy Ghost and when Simon saw that through the laying on of hands the Holy Ghost was given, he was tempted to offer bribe in order to obtain the gift of God as some of our present-day men of God have sold themselves to the devil only to attain material opulence and gain vain popularity. I weep for this generation because they do not know and lack the spiritual insight to differentiate between the works of darkness and those of God. A situation in which a man of God was instructed to sleep in a coffin or casket for a week only to obtain the satanic power of vision and prophesy is a bugaboo and an affront to the principles of divinity. A man of God seeking freedom recently spoke to me that he was deceived by one of his friends to search for power from a wrong source and he was instructed by the occult guru to sleep in a coffin for seven days and being amazed of how he was going to sleep in a casket for seven days, the evil man consequently informed him that the seven days will just appear to him like an hour and half, promising of assisting him to put him into sleep (hypnotism) and guiding him in the dream state. By dream state, the occultist was referring to his conscious experience in the casket, which he (the occult man) was going to make to appear as a mere dream. According to the man of God, the occultist gave him something to drink after much incantation; he thereafter drank it and consequently went to sleep inside the casket. He woke up after one hour and half, which was equal to seven days in the physical calculation. According to him, he was empowered in the realm of the spirit by evil spirits to perform signs and wonders through prophesy and vision. The funny thing is that his lifespan was reduced. In his words, “I was given the power that I was looking for. I am 45 years old now and I have only one more year to live now, in accordance with our agreement. Please, sir, is there a way God can destroy this and extend my life on earth? I am ready to serve him now…”