By Chinyere Anyanwu The Federal Government is set to partner with its Brazilian counterpart for the supply and distribution of 10,000 tractors to farmers across the country to fast-track the mechanisation of the agricultural sector, improve production and boost the economy. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Dr. Mohammad Abubakar, made this known during the opening ceremony of Africa’s Agricultural machines and equipment technology expo on industrialising Africa’s agriculture through technology and innovation, held in Abuja. According to him, the development would enhance food self-sufficiency and create job opportunities for Nigerian youths, while also revealing that the purpose of the expo was to expose African farmers to cost-effective farm machines and new farming technologies, to increase foreign direct investments, as well as create business among farm products, producers and processors. This, the minister noted, was in tandem with the agricultural policy of the government and a call to bring succour to the drudgery nature of local farm practices to encourage the teeming youths to embrace the agricultural sector. Abubakar further said the expo was an avenue for the exchange of cultural values, which will attract needed capital into Africa’s farm sector. This, he said, will come face to face with experts in agricultural engineering fields such as farm power and machinery, irrigation (soil and water engineering) and storage of agricultural products on commercial quantity. The minister pledged that the forum will go a long way to establish a knowledge and business sharing platform to identify global investment opportunities and risks, adding that it will translate into increased production and quality level of African farm harvest. He further revealed that the quest for food self-sufficiency cannot be achieved using the old method of rudimentary tools. He, therefore, urged farmers to grab the new technologies and innovations to do exploits in farm practices. Abubakar stated that the partnership with Brazilian counterparts would ensure the provision of 10,000 units of tractors, 50,000 units of assorted implements and equipment for assembly in Nigeria, 142 turnkey factories for agro-processing as well as training of the project beneficiaries over five years. Earlier in his remarks, the Permanent Secretary, Dr. Ernest Umahkike, represented by the Director, Federal Department of Agriculture, Abdullahi Garuba, stated that the expo was meant to expose Africa’s farmers to the latest innovation in technology across the value chain. He pointed out that agriculture in Nigeria contributes about 33 per cent to gross domestic product (GDP) and engages a large number of the nation’s workforce in farming. He added that agricultural expo will contribute to the advanced processing of agricultural raw materials and promote the growth of the agro-industrial section and the export of food products that are made in Nigeria. A statement by the ministry’s director of information signed by his assistant, Salamatu Jibaniya, said the expo featured a display of various agricultural equipment by different agricultural and allied manufacturers.