From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday, pledged to uphold and respect the votes of electorate in determining winners in the 2023 general elections. Its chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, gave the assurance when he hosted a delegation of the  United Nations Needs Assessment Mission in Abuja, yesterday. He said the commission would do everything to ensure that elections in Nigeria continue to get better. “I want to assure you that we will continue to do what is right on the basis of the law, the ultimate choice is going to be made by Nigerians. Nigerians will determine who they want in the 2023 general election and we will continue to uphold the choice made by Nigerians. So I want to assure you that we will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that our election continue to get better and better and the democratic environment is increasingly consolidated. We look forward to seeing you again before and during the election,” he said. Yakubu said the commission had good working relationship with strategic partners and allies in the country, including political parties, civil society organisations, media, security agencies, and friends in the international community such as UNOWAS. “So whenever you come on this kind of mission, we feel fully encouraged to continue to do what we need to do for the peace and stability of our sub-region.” Yakubu thanked UNOWAS for always sending a team to monitor and observe elections in Nigeria.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Head of the United Nations Office for West Africa and the Sahel (UNOWAS), Mahamat Saleh, said the peace and stability of Nigeria remained their top priority. “We are here at the time Nigeria is preparing to hold election next year, 2023. For us the peace and stability and the security in the region depend also on Nigeria. Nigeria as we always say is a good example, we are happy that the candidates are already selected. The United Nations will always be supportive to Nigeria so that this election will take place peacefully. We congratulate you and we will support you again for the work been done and the work you will do in preparing for this election,” he said.