From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja National Vice Chairman (North West) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Salihu Moh Lukman, has warned that irrespective of the religious and ethnic choice the party’s presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, made over his running mate, he would face a very keenly contested poll. In a statement he issued in Abuja yesterday, entitled: “Issues for APC 2023 presidential campaign”, he noted that if Nigeria is to move forward, 2023 presidential campaigns must not be reduced to sentimental considerations of ethnicity and religion. “With Asiwaju’s victory, the debate has now shifted to the choice of running mate. As usual, conservative and reactionary ethno-religious consideration are colouring the debate. Question of Muslim – Muslim ticket, implying that another Muslim from the North will most likely be Asiwaju’s running mate. Leading party members are already becoming strong advocates for or against a so-called Muslim – Muslim ticket. This debate is reproducing the old pre-convention reactionary and conservative campaign. “If choices of leaders are dictated by ethno-religious factors, Nigerian politics will continue to be disadvantageous to many sections of the country. For instance, only Christian Southerners and Muslim Northerners will continue to have advantages. Most of those trying to use religious arguments to influence the choice of running mate for Asiwaju Tinubu are impliedly arguing that a Christian Northerner can only win presidential election if his/her running mate is a Muslim from Southern Nigeria. “In the same way, this will be politically disadvantageous, if not impossible for any Christian from the North or Muslim from the South to win presidential election. Such a backward national mindset must be changed. “The challenge facing Nigerian politics is about opening the democratic space. It is not going to be easy, but Nigerians must be challenged to make hard choices. Important as ethnic and religious identities are, addressing challenges facing the country requires that political leaders are not allowed to ride on cheap sentiments of religion and ethnicity to opportunistically win elections,” he advised.