This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Emmanuel Ogoigbe Warri Three soldiers and four civilians were among the seven persons killed, Wednesday evening by a militant group suspected to be members of the Niger Delta Avengers (NDA), when the gang attacked a houseboat  between Omadino and Ifiekporo, Warri South Local Government Area, of Delta State. The attack, it was gathered, recorded the first set of casualties in the renewed hostilities in Delta creeks,  raising tension and apprehension in the area. The three soldiers, it was gathered, were on guard at an oil installations when they were attacked.  The four civilians two males and two females were domestic staff contracted to oversee the welfare of the soldiers. The Commanding Officer (CO) 3 Battalion Effurun Barracks, Major Monday Anzaku, when contacted on his mobile phone promised to call back but has not. However, a military source, who does not want his name in print, confirmed the attack. He  said  two soldiers and five civilians were killed while several others were  injured in the unprovoked attack. At the Central Hospital, where the corps were deposited midnight Wednesday, the Public Relations Officer (PRO), Mrs. Success Obere, confirmed that military men and civilians were brought to the mogue but could not give the exact figure. When Daily Sun visited the  Hospital, it was confirmed that three soldiers and four civilians were deposited at the mogue. No report of death has been heard on the side of the militant group.  It was gathered that the militants  came through Omadino creek to Ifiekporo area were they carried out the attack. A student of Delta State Polytechnic, Otefe-Oghara,  Richard Ebiayaidou, lamented the untimely death of his 26 -year- old brother, Tombra Iwoboibi, who he said was a cook attached to the house before the unfortunate incident. Richard said that Tombra hails from Odimodi, Burutu Local Government Area of Delta State. “I feel sad. I am weighed down. To me, I don’t know what Niger Delta Avengers want. They said they are fighting with the Federal government because they don’t want them to rest. But I see no reason why they should attack houseboat and killed civilians. “I will appeal that the Federal Government should approach this issue with caution, so that we do not continue to lose our loved ones. The creeks are filled with soldiers. We can’t move freely again and there is nowhere to go,” he said.