The Defence Media Operations (DMO) said soldiers on internal security operations in Plateau State have killed a notorious bandit and kidnap kingpin at Kan Duniya Village, in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau State. Troops also rescued three kidnapped victims and recovered several weapons and logistics from the criminals. Director, DMO, Major General Bernard Onyeuko, who made the disclosure in a statement, yesterday, said troops arrested 10 armed robbery suspects at Kafanchan Town, Jema’a Local Government Area Kaduna State. He said the soldiers, working in conjunction with vigilance groups, recorded the feat while on clearance operations in various parts of Plateau and Kaduna states. The statement reads: “Troops of Operation Safe Haven, in a sustained effort to eliminate criminal elements in their area of operation, on June 28, 2022, based on credible intelligence, conducted a clearance operation, in conjunction with vigilantes, at Kan Duniya Village, Barkin Ladi Local Government Area, Plateau State, neutralised notorious bandit and kidnapper. “Similarly, on the same day, troops on fighting patrol sighted two suspected kidnappers around Sara High Ground Mangu Local Government Area, Plateau State, on a motorcycle. “Suspects abandoned their motorcycle on sighting troops and fled. Troops exploited the area and recovered two AK47 rifles, 101 rounds of 7.62mm special, five magazines, one motorcycle, one iron digger and two black jackets, amongst others. “Furthermore, on June 28, 2022, based on intelligence, troops conducted a cordon search operation at Fanock Village, Jema’a Local Government Area, Kaduna state, and found a Toyota Corolla car with registration number Abuja KUJ 452 AZ with no occupant. Troops conducted search operations in the surrounding bush and rescued three kidnapped civilians; two females and a male.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “Additionally, the same day, troops arrested 10 armed robbery suspects at Kafanchan town, Jema’a local government area, Kaduna state. The arrested suspects include Messrs Manga Ismail, 22 years; Idris Haruna (Ban Sambo), 20 years; Sani Bali, 19 years; Shamsudeen Ladan, 25 years; Abdulmajid Yau (Sele), 22 years; Abubakar Hassan, 23 years; Abbas Aliyu, 15 years; Mohammed Umar (Jazuli), 17 years; Jonathan Vincent (Bamai), 19 years, and Stephen Joseph, 25 years. Items recovered from the criminals include: TV, DVD, gas cookers, mattresses, woofer, phones and scissors, among others. They are presently undergoing interrogations “The military high command commends troops of Operation Safe Haven and encourages the general public to avail troops with credible and timely information on criminal activities.