From Obinna Odogwu, Awka The Anambra State Police Command said that it has killed two of the gunmen terrorising parts of the state. It also said that two robbery suspects were rescued from a mob action in Awka, the state capital. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Tochukwu Ikenga, in a statement, said that the police operatives, who carried out the operation, also recovered weapons from the suspects. “Anambra State Police Operatives, while on patrol along Obosi Nkpor Road, by Obosi town hall, at about 11:39pm, on 26/6/2022, accosted a gang of armed men in white Toyota Hiace bus, red Toyota Corolla and a motorcycle. “The operatives engaged the armed men in a gun battle, neutralised two of the hoodlums and recovered one pump action, one locally fabricated pistol and a red Toyota Corolla with registration no. AKD 303 DW. During the gun duel with the hoodlums, the superior fire power of the operatives made the assailants flee the scene with the Toyota Hiace bus and a motorcycle. “Meanwhile, police have intensified patrol in the area and improved operational positioning, to respond to distress calls, especially aimed at arresting other fleeing gang members. “In another development, the operatives at about 11pm, on 26/6/2022, while on patrol along Central School Road, Umusiomen Nkpor, Ogidi, recovered a white Mercedes Benz 350 with reg. no. RSH 836 BE, suspected to have been abandoned by criminal elements. “Also, police operatives, at about 4:30pm, on 28/6/2022, rescued two suspects, namely: one Okoye Stephen, aged 19 years, and Chukwuemeka Nwudo, aged 27 years, from mob action, along Ziks Avenue Awka. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “The suspects were caught armed with a locally made pistol, in an attempt to dispossess a young lady of her cash, after withdrawing money from an ATM. The suspects were already beaten to stupor by the angry mob before police rescued them. The operatives also recovered one locally made pistol and one live cartridge from the criminals. “The Commissioner of Police, CP Echeng Echeng, while charging the operatives to sustain the tempo on the fight against violent crimes in the state, reiterates the advocacy against mob action/jungle justice.