This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Taiwo Oluwadare, Ibadan As part of effort to maximise potentials for national development through altering the mindset, an online cinematography platform known as Live With Sandra (LWS) in partnership with the Delta State Innovation hub, has organised a one-day self awareness seminar for youths. Speaking with Daily Sun, the convener of the group and a serving Youth Corp member in the state, Ms Sandra Adebayo, said that the platform was established to impact positively on the youths through the instrument of the social media, stressing that the theme of the seminar ‘Dealing with Inferiority Complex’ was apt because until the youths are bold enough, they cannot fully harness their potentials for national development. According to her, the youths have suffered inferiority complex to the point that they think they can no longer add value to humanity, adding that no amount of empowerment will be effective and beneficial to the youth until the mindset is altered from within to allow for a fertile ground for actualising dreams and harnessing potentials. One of the guest speakers at the seminar, Mrs. Onome Onovwakpoyeya, representing the Senior Pastor, Destiny Alive Christian Centre, Asaba, Apostle Tayo Omoniyi, said that maintaining a healthy and realistic view of oneself is about learning to appreciate and respect the self even with its flaws, even as she defined inferiority complex as the conscious or unconscious feeling of inadequacy, lack of self-worth and a feeling of not measuring up to standard. “When you have inferiority complex you put little values on your opinions and ideas, you focus on your perceived weakness and faults and give scant credit to your skills and assets,” she added. In the same vein, a health practitioner, Dr. Tessy Yussuf, said that awakening the consciousness to oneself is the first step in building healthy self-esteem, stressing that the need to cultivate support systems is also essential, even as she averred that “if you are awake, nobody can push you around” Another speaker and Chief Executive Officer, Etiam Innovation Systems Barr. Mark Nduka-eze described the Nigerian youth as the most innovative in the world, adding that for Nigeria to develop beyond the present, there is must be urgent need to look away from government towards the digital economy. According to him, it is imperative for the youths to engage in doing what they love to do and remain focused irrespective of their training in various human endeavors. Highlights of the event include question and answer session, contributions from participants as well as photographs with resource persons.