In furtherance of the concerted efforts of his administration in reviewing the policies, programmes, structures and operations of the State Public Service for optimal results, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, yesterday, inaugurated an eight-man Committee to coordinate the implementation of the recommendations of the 12 Sectoral Committees. Inaugurating the Committee, Governor Ugwuanyi, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Simon Uchenna Ortuanya, named Dr. Kingsley T. Udeh as chairman. The governor also listed the Special Adviser to the Governor on Agriculture, Mike Ogbuekwe, former chairman, Collation Committee on Sectoral Ad hoc Committees’ report, Prof. Vincent Onodugo, and former Reform Manager, DFID PERL, South East, Mrs. Ucheoma Egwuatu, as members of the implementation coordination committee. Other members of the Committee are former member, Collation Committee on Sectoral Ad hoc Committees’ report and former State Team Lead, DFID SPARC, Enugu, Barr. Sam Onovo Onyia, Retired Permanent Secretary and Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the Governor, Mrs. Sylvia Onwubuemeli mni, Representative of the Attorney General, and the Director of Administration, Office of the Secretary to the State Government, Mr. Madueke Nsude, who serves as Secretary of the Committee. Governor Ugwuanyi disclosed that the responsibility of the Committee is to coordinate the implementation of the recommendations of the 12 Sectoral Committees that articulated necessary reforms in the State Public Service. He urged members of the newly inaugurated Committee to bring their wealth of experience to bear on the assignment, “and thus, propel our state to an enviable height, while leaving indelible marks on the sands of time”.      The sectors earlier reviewed by tested technocrats drawn from various backgrounds include Education, Health, Public Service, Justice, Water, Security, Agriculture, Rural Development, Finance and Chieftaincy/Community Matters. The Sectoral Committees equally reviewed the state’s Internally Generated Revenue and international development partners’ funding; lands, housing and transport; sustainable environmental and urban management; and youths and sports development. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Responding on behalf of the implementation coordination committee, the Chairman, Dr. Udeh, thanked Gov. Ugwuanyi for finding them worthy to serve the state in that capacity. He also commended the governor for his unique reform mindset. He reiterated their commitment to serve in the committee with “the fear of God and utmost good faith”, stressing that they will deliver on the mandate considering their depth of knowledge and experience.