From Kenneth Udeh, Abuja In readiness for the 2023 general elections, the candidate for governor of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Adamawa State, Senator Aishatu Binani, disclosed on Thursday the selection of Hon Titsi Ganama, a former member of the House of Representatives, as her running mate. The adoption of Ganama, a former commissioner in the Adamawa State Ministry of Finance, was disclosed in a letter dated, Thursday, June 30, addressed to the APC State Chairman, Ibrahim Bilal, signed by Senator Binani. Also copied in the letter are the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Gida Mustapha and Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Muhammad Musa Bello. As stated in the letter, Binani revealed that Ganama’s selection is in accordance with the recommendation of the nine-member committee which she constituted with a mandate to undertake broad consultation across the state to shortlist all eligible deputy governorship candidates, from which she’d choose from. Binani stressed that her decision to Institute the committee is for the party to own the process of not only producing the Governor through primaries but the Deputy as well. She added that in demonstration of her loyalty to the party, she accepted the submission of the committee and has since forwarded the name of Hon Titsi Ganama as the Deputy Governorship candidate of the APC to the National Secretariat for onward submission to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The members of the 9-member committee included three members of the State Executive of the party namely: the State Chairman, Alh Ibrahim Bilal; Secretary of the party, Dr Raymond Chidama; Treasurer, Alh Yayaha Hamman Julde and representatives across 3 Senatorial Districts. The Committee shortlisted several names and finally pruned them down to three from which Binani selected Ganama for nomination. Ganama, a former member of the House of Representatives (2011-2015) holds a Bsc and Msc in Geography, he worked as a lecturer at the then College of Preliminary Studies, CPS Yola in the defunct Gongola state, now present State Polytechnic Yola, Adamawa State. Ganama, who represented Madagali/Michika Federal Constituency, gained experience in the private sector and rose through the ranks to a branch manager with Allied Bank Plc in Ibadan, Jos and Abuja. He was also a Branch Manager with the Loin Bank Plc Kano Branch and the Head of Human Resources in the Bank’s Headquarters Abuja. Ganama also held the office of a Principal Manager, Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund, NSITF, Abuja Area Office. According to Binani, with the completion of this process, the party is set for victory in the forthcoming General elections.