This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Paul Osuyi, Asaba Relevant stakeholders in Delta State have thrown their weight behind the bill for a law to regulate financial management of the state government. Speaking at a public hearing on the bill organised by the state House of Assembly, the stakeholders stressed the need for prudent management of the state resources to engender greater development in the state. Chairman of the House Committee on Public Accounts, Mr. Anthony Elekeokuri said the bill has since passed the second reading on the floor of the house, noting that the public hearing is to get the inputs of key stakeholders in line with the law making process of the state legislature. Elekeokuri stated: “We are gathered to participate in a public hearing of this executive bill which intends to address or fill a gap in other related exiting laws in the state. With the existence of the Fiscal Responsibility Law and the Delta State Public Procurement Law, it has become expedient that the Delta State Public Finance Management Law come on board. “Public Financial Management (PFM) considers the generation of resources, allocation of the resources and management of government expenditure geared towards efficient delivery of public good and services. Amongst the elements of the PFM, revenue management, debt management, budgeting, procurement, accounting and reporting and accountability and oversight.” Elekeokuri maintained that considering the overwhelming importance of the bill towards probity, transparency and accountability, it was expedient to make valid contributions through memoranda and oral presentations towards making the proposed law relevant. The Auditor-General (State), Mr. Goddey Amudo, Auditor-General (Local Government), Mr. Abel Esievo and Accountant-General of the state, Mr. Cyril Agbele said the proposed law was a welcome development, adding that they were in agreement with all the proposed sessions of the bill as they are all aimed at checking financial improprieties in the state. SEEFOR Project Director in the state, Mr. Benson Ojoko and some chairmen of local government councils in the state, also commended the initiative to domesticate the Federal Act on Public Financial Management as already applied in some states of the federation.