From Gyang Bere, Jos The Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant Gen. Faruk Yahaya, has urged serving and retired military officers to work in collaboration to win the war against Boko Haram, banditry and kidnapping in the country. Gen. Faruk made the disclosure in Jos, on Tuesday, during the regimental dinner for the year 2021 retired officers colonel and below in 3 Division Area of responsibility, held at the 3 Division of the Nigerian Army, Rukuba Jos, Plateau State. Represented by the General Officer Commanding 3 Division, Major Gen. Ibrahim Ali urged the retired personnel to take advantage of the welfare and medical facility provided by the Nigerian Army to access medical treatment, in order to provide more valuable services for the nation. “I must commend you all for the remarkable achievements you made while in active service to the nation through the Army. I wish to also assure you that the Nigerian Army remains grateful for the services you have rendered in defence of our fatherland. “This celebration should also be taken as an avenue to thank the Almighty God for the grace given to you to render distinguished and meritorious services to our nation, in the quest to restore peace and harmony to our beloved country. “I urged you all never to rest on your oars, even in retirement, until this war is brought to an end in favour of the Armed Forces and, by extension, our nation.” Faruk intimated the retired personnel of the efforts being made by the army to re-engage the services of qualified retired/discharged personnel, to draw more from their wealth of priceless experience and professionalism in the interest of peace and harmony in the country. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. He assured that the expertise of the retired personnel was highly needed to enhance the fighting efficiency of the army in the ongoing numerous operations across the country. “The army is still open to your valuable contributions towards attaining the constitutional mandate and would always welcome your support in that regard.” Former General Officer Commanding 3 Division and ex-Commander of the Special Task Force, Major. Gen. Hassan Umoru, who was the special guest of honour, commended the retired personnel for contributing meaningfully for the peace of the nation. Gen. Umoru urged them to always be conscious of their health and contribute their quota to the advancement of peace and unity anywhere they found themselves. The Chief of Army Staff had earlier held a valedictory Buffet in honour of discharged soldiers in 3 Division Area of responsibility.