This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Nigerian Association for Young Adults of Canada (NAYA) set up to foster interest in Diaspora through Humanitarian Services on Education , Health,Care, Social and Economic Development will tomorrow, Saturday donate medical equipments worth N784m to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Bida, Niger State. The items to be donated include hospital beds,  mattresses, incubators, syringes, and other sophisticated equipments. National President of the organization, Mr Shola  Agboola said NAYA has provided different kinds of equipment that would serve all the different sectors in the hospital. He informed that NAYA  has already donated  many items to some tertiary institutions and hospitals in Nigeria since 2013. “From 2013 till date, NAYA has made significant  social investments in many sectors such as health care, education and empowerment, ICT Training, Computer,  Funding and Provision, Cultural promotion/exchange and Female Gender Development initiatives in Nigeria. We have been donating hospital equipments to hospitals in all the geo-political zones in Nigeria. We started in Imo,  then Kebbi State in 2014, Bayelsa, Osun, Ogun, Abia, and now we are going to launch another multi million naira medical equipment donation in Bida, Niger State. The donation in Niger State will be the second in 2019. In January 2019, we donated hospital equipment worth N540 million to Madonna Hospital, Umuahia, Abia State. So far, our social investments in Nigeria worth about 46 million dollars.” Agboola explained that NAYA members are going to Niger State to ensure that  they touch every geo-political zone in Nigeria. We divided Nigeria into zones, and will be visiting them states by states. We have already been to some states. We know we cannot cover all the states, but we will try to reach out because we know that governance should not be left for government alone . So, we need to give back to the society as we can.” Agboola also said NAYA is receiving another consignment of 40 feet container of medical equipment on 22nd of November, 2019 to be donated to another hospital in Nigeria