It was obvious something uncommon was “cooking” in the judiciary. This was particularly striking in the Supreme Court. We were convinced. By the time the dust settled; things would have completely fallen apart. We were glad it aptly came to pass. So far, so good! In the past few weeks, the apex court was the place to be. In its Justices we have seen doggedness, steadfastness, stubbornness and bravery. All these beautifully rolled into a magnificent one. It displayed the very best. We enjoyed every bit of the drama. We never wished it would come to such a sudden close. Pity, it did last Sunday night. We have searched, gone into the archives. We went through records and turned over documents. Midnight candles of various shapes were burnt endlessly. No clue was found, not even a remote hint came near. We dug deeper into libraries, analogue and electronic. No trace, no semblance was detected. There has never been a thing like this before. Then what actually went wrong?  These Supreme Court Justices are something else. Fourteen of them acted as if they’re not of this our eerie clime. It was all to our greatest delight. We were thrilled as events unfolded. Things pleasurably fell into pleasant places. We are beginning to cheerfully sing new songs. That moment is here with us. Pray not to be left behind in the cold. The sordid narrative began this way. In a most astonishing manner, the 14 Justices braved the odds. They refused to be cajoled or cowed. They would not keep silent. Not in the face of flagrant injustice, ineptitude and incompetence. They were very much aware history would not be kind to them. They decided to release their pent-up frustrations. They did that through a protest letter. Though angry, they still put in some civility. They chose not to mince or mix words. Their legion of grievances was dressed in clarity, devoid of ambiguity. It was the first of its kind. The apex court never witnessed it that bad in its 58-year history. It was shocking, amazing but quite revealing. They hung all the wrongs on the fragile neck of Justice Tanko Muhammad. Do you blame them? He used to be Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). He once held sway at the Supreme Court. Justice Olukayode Ariwoola, then second most senior, led the pack. They had a very strong case. It was well marshalled, packaged and delivered. The vexing issues included: “Vehicles, electricity tariff, supply of diesel, Internet services to (Justices’) residences and chambers, and epileptic electricity supply to the court.” It was a chronicle of operational challenges. They were forced to voice it out. And they lay their case bare meticulously. Samplers:  “We demand to know what has become of our training funds. Have they been diverted, or is it a plain denial? “We find it strange that despite the upward review of our budgetary allocation, the court cannot cater for our legitimate entitlements. This is unacceptable!” These unrelenting Justices would not cave in: “We are confronted with various complex legal issues of national significance with the addition of time-bound matters coming in between our regular court sittings. We require qualified legal assistants in order to offer our best. This demand has not been accorded any attention by the Honourable Chief Justice.” The erratic electricity supply didn’t escape their hammer either. They were forced to work between “8 a.m. and 4 p.m. daily, for lack of diesel.” This terrified them and they fought back:  “The implication of this is that the Justices must finish their work and close before 4 pm. Your Lordship, with all due respect, this is the peak of the degeneration of the court; it is the height of decadence and clear evidence of the absence of probity and moral rectitude.” Muhammad was also nailed for withholding his assent to “Rules of Court for almost three years now.” They claimed this slowed down their productivity in dispensing with cases: “We strongly believe the new rules will aid speedy dispensation of justice. “Your Lordship received and ignored these demands since March 24, 2022.” Should he continue to ignore them: “We will be compelled to (take) further steps immediately. May this day never come.” It wasn’t a threat but a stern warning. Wise Muhammad. He did not allow it to get to that stage. He knew the game was up. Nowhere else to run. All avenues exhausted to the maximum. Just before then. He wanted to show the pretended hard stuff he thought he was made of. That attempt was a colossal failure. Muhammad really messed things up in his feigned Spartan defence. He erroneously thought it was business as usual. He failed to adequately read between the lines. He opted to handle the situation with gross levity. And he paid heavily for his goof. He treated their letter with utmost flippancy. His response was frivolous. Even more ridiculous, he did it using his Senior Special Assistant (Media), Ahuraka Yusuf Isah:  “Judges in all climes are to be seen and not heard. That informed why the CJN refrained from joining issues until a letter, said to be personal, is spreading across the length and breadth of the society. This was akin to dancing naked at the market square by us with the ripple effect of the said letter.” These justices were emboldened by their conviction. The ex-CJN’s response did not impress them a bit. They refused to be appeased. They were meticulous and never took things for granted. And would not leave any stone unturned. The Justices could not be assuaged. The situation was already under alarm. And there was no need for control. The Senate and Body of Benchers couldn’t convince the jurists otherwise. They would not drop their gauntlet. They saw some glaring deceit in the whole process. They wouldn’t take chances this time around. A risk not worth contemplating. Even a former brother Justice, Emir of Lafia, Alhaji Sidi Bage Muhammed, did not make any headway. His overtures on behalf of Muhammad were flatly turned down. There and then, the stark, naked reality dawned on Muhammad. He knew saw the red light when he saw one. And he read between the ugly lines with precision. So? That Sunday night, he did the unexpected. He could not stand his brother justices any longer. He quietly threw in his battered, seriously bruised towel. That’s the wisest at that inevitable crossroads. He was lucky. He didn’t mismanage the golden opportunity. He grabbed it with all his heart. An arrogant fool would not. He dreaded the Walter Nkanu Onnoghen treatment. Neither would he risk the Mary Odili therapy. He feared both and avoided them like a plague. Muhammad’s resignation was an obvious soft-landing for those who knew. The grievances were overwhelming. Throwing in his dirty towel was his viable alternative, his last hope. And it came handy. The reason he coasts home with Grand Commander of the Order of the Niger, GCON. Courtesy: President Muhammadu Buhari.    Muhammad knew when his time was up. He realised his adamance at this moment would make no sense. Its potency was long gone. He lost the battle but remains victorious. Strange? GCON is it!