This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure Four people were, on Tuesday, feared dead in a robbery attack in Ondo, the headquarters of Ondo West Local Government Area of Ondo State. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) for the state police command, Funmilayo Odunlami, confirmed the attack. She said: “On Tuesday, June 7, 2022, there was an attempted robbery on a J5 vehicle with plate number MKA 469 YJ carrying onions and potatoes, coming from Zaria en route Ore. “The vehicle had a stop over at Ondo town and was attacked by men of the underworld. In the cause of the attack, the robbers shot the driver, while the motor boy escaped with bullet injury.  “A motorcyclist alongside the pillion and a passerby were also hit by stray bullets.” The PPRO said the police were on the trail of the suspects, assuring that the suspects will be brought to book in no distant time. She, however, dispelled insinuations that the killing was a terrorist attack, assuring that the state is safe. The police image maker said the rumour was part of fake news being peddled by some disgruntled elements, who she described as enemies of peace. She said: “The attention of the Ondo State Police command has been drawn to a fake news being peddled by some mischief makers to cause panic, tension and strife in the State.  “The command wishes to state clearly that there was no reprisal on the Hausa community at the Sabo area in Ondo town or any part of the state  as purported by these war mongers.  “It is, however, disheartening that these peddlers who are out to achieve no good did not confirm the story before spreading this falsehood as the victims involved in this failed robbery are of Yoruba, Igbo and Northern extraction. “Investigation has since commenced and effort is ongoing to arrest the assailants. On this note, the Commissioner of Police, Ondo State Command, Mr Oyeyemi Adesoye Oyediran, has urged the people of the state to remain calm and disregard the fake news, as the rumour mongers are out to stir unnecessary chaos and disrupt the peace of the state. “This is also to warn peddlers of this fake news to desist as the command will not fold its arms and let them shatter the peace being enjoyed in the state,” she added.