From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja  Ahead of today’s national convention of All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari hosted stakeholders of the party to a dinner. The event, which took place at the Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Sunday, was a follow up of the meeting he had with the national leadership and presidential aspirants of the party on Saturday night. Those in attendance were by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; the leadership of the National Assembly including the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila. Others were Segun Osoba, Bisi Akande, John Oyegun, Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman of the Party, Abdullahi Adamu, National Secretary of the party, Iyiola Omisore, some governors attending. Buhari was expected to use the occasion to press ahead with his desire to achieve a consensus on the race for the party’s presidential ticket before the convention. As at Saturday, the objective had not been achieved, prompting him to admonished the aspirants to talk to themselves, reach a consensus and present a formidable candidate. Speaking at the consultative meeting Saturday, Buhari had said: “Looking at this assemblage of personalities and considering your rich pedigree of accomplishments in life, I have come to the conclusion that our party, the APC, is rich in human resources and also that our nation is blessed with capable people that can successfully steer the ship of state into the future.” He added that with his first-hand knowledge of the demands of the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the expectations of the citizens, “I must salute your courage and your selfless spirit, in volunteering to serve in the highest office of the land.” President Buhari added: “Our party, the APC, has won two successive presidential elections in 2015, first when we were in the opposition and in 2019 when I sought re-election.     Both processes were achieved through unity of purpose, strategic alignment, consultation, fairness, determination and effective leadership. In both instances, national and party interests were overriding factors in our deliberations and decision-making. “The 2023 General Elections are fast approaching in a global, regional and national environment that is constantly changing and challenging. This demands that our party should become more aware of the changing environment, be responsive to the yearnings of our citizens, re-evaluate our strategy and strengthen our internal mechanism so that we would sustain the electoral successes. “I am pleased to note that the party, recognizing the significance of all these demands, has over time developed several democratically acceptable processes and policies, that promote consultation, internal cohesion and leadership to facilitate victories at the polls.” The President recalled the consultation he had held with stakeholders “that would help the electoral fortunes of our party, beginning with the State Governors. This is the second in the series and I still look forward to meeting with party stakeholders. These steps are being taken to ensure that the unity and cohesion of the party are sustained and to provide direction. “Amongst others things, I reminded the APC Governors of the need for the party to proceed to the 2023 Presidential elections with strength, unity of purpose and to present a flag bearer who will give Nigerians a sense of hope and confidence, while ensuring victory for our party. I extend a similar reminder to all of you distinguished aspirants.” He said the APC will on Monday commence its national convention during which one candidate will be picked by delegates to fly the flag of the party for the 2023 Presidential Election, President Buhari said he was aware that there is anxiety among party members about the outcome of the process. “Given these circumstances, I charge you to recognize the importance of the stability and unity of the party, which cannot be overemphasized. “Similarly, I wish to remind you that our choice of flag bearer must be formidable, appealing to the electorate across the board and should command such ability to unify the country and capacity to address our critical challenges. “Ahead of the Convention, the party machinery has screened and found all aspirants eminently qualified. Recognizing this fact, the Screening Committee has, amongst others, recommended that consensus building through consultation, be intensified.