This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Daily Mail An Egyptian football pundit died after watching his nation slump to their third consecutive World Cup defeat in Russia.  Abdel Rahim Mohamed was due to analyse Egypt’s 2-1 defeat to Saudi Arabia but was rushed to hospital after suffering a heart attack. It was reported he had become increasingly emotional watching the game at TV studios in Cairo. Abdel Rahim Mohamed died from a heart attack after Egypt crashed out of the World Cup following 2-1 defeat to Saudi Arabia The former football coach had become emotional watching Egypt’s defeat Egypt were dispatched from the tournament without a single point after Salem Al-Dawsari scored a 94th minute winner for the Saudis. Egypt Today reported that Mohamed was taken to hospital by his son after the defeat where he was pronounced dead. Hector Cuper, Egypt’s coach, expressed his condolences in a press conference after the match hoping that the loss is not the reason Mohamed passed away. Former goalkeeper Ahmed Fawzi said his colleague Mohamed — who used to coach Egyptian club side Zamalek — was emotional during the match and looked ‘exhausted’, according to local reports. Egypt coach Hector Cuper told a press conference that he hoped his side’s sub-par performance was not to blame for Mohamed’s passing. The Group A clash between Saudi Arabia and Egypt was billed as a dead rubber as both sides were already eliminated courtesy of defeats to Uruguay and hosts Russia. Liverpool’s Mo Salah had given The Pharaohs something to cheer about when he opened the scoring on 22 minutes however. They had even more reason to smile when Essam El Hadary — who became the oldest player to feature at a World Cup aged 45 — saved a first half penalty from Fahad Al-Muwallad. But he was later beaten from the spot by Salman Al-Faraj to send the sides in level at the break. Deep into injury time, Al-Dawsari struck a deserved late winner to end Saudi Arabia’s tournament on a high note.