By Gilbert Ekezie The Chief Executive Officer of AKO Group of Companies Limited, Mr Obiora Atuchukwu, has stressed the urgent need to fight diabetes with Diabiz herbal tea, another Indian Ayurvedic formulation. He described diabetes as a debilitating disease that affects every part of the body and explained that there is an endless list of diabetes-related health hazards, noting that till date, modern medical treatment has not come up with any concrete remedy to ‘cure’ this problem. “Apparently, patients either fail to respond to the available medicines or subject themselves to their long-term adverse effects,” he said. Atuchukwu stated that the only natural product that absolutely takes care of diabetes is Diabiz herbal tea, a remedy that supports carbohydrate metabolism, aids in maintaining level of blood sugar within the normal range, works against insulin resistance and combats the metabolic syndrome. Atuchukwu said Diabiz, another product of AKO Group of Companies, was recently approved by the National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control, NAFDAC, for marketing after undergoing various laboratory tests. “Diabiz is enriched with extremely potent herbs and helps for faster control and relief of all types of diabetes. It is a substance that is taken like the normal tea with hot water on regular basis.” According to him, it is important to emphasize that Diabiz can be used alongside Dykure herbal capsules without experiencing any side effect because they are naturally made of herbs. “The product contains natural zinc and chromium that help in proper metabolism of sugar, and has other natural properties that ensure that insulin gets utilized properly in the system. It also has another property that ensures perfect blood supply to the heart and vital organs, protecting them against diseases,” he added. The AKO Group chief executive informed that one will start feeling energetic right from the first day he began to use Diabiz. But noticeable improvement would be observed in approximately 15 days from the commencement. “A proper use of Diabiz will ensure a healthy life, closest to being absolutely normal. The product not only deals with Diabetes, but also improves overall physical and mental well-being. So, you would surely feel more energetic and youthful by continuosly using it.”