From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, has reacted to the certificates saga of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, saying if the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) record keeping is efficient and its server functional, it should be a non-ssue. He stated this after a thank you visit to President Muhammadu Buhari, for approving the hosting of Army Day celebration in Owerri, saying it would strengthen the measures already on ground to contain banditry and insecurity in the region and send strong signals to criminals. Tinubu had in an affidavit submitted to the electoral body said he did not attend primary and secondary schools. The former Lagos governor, however, claimed he had two degrees from two US universities, which he further stated were stolen by unknown soldiers during the military era of the 1990s. Uzodimma who defended the APC presidential aspirant said: “But for my presidential candidate, the issue of certificates shouldn’t even arise. In 1999 he contested elections and became the governor of Lagos, in 2003 he contested election as second term governor of Lagos. He ran and won as a senator in the country. Where record keeping is efficient, and INEC server is functional, he doesn’t need to do fresh submission. However, if whatever he is supposed to submit is not handy, it is not late yet. I’m sure before the time he will submit whatever is required of him.” The Imo governor also replied Batos Nwadike, his adviser on Political Matters,  who resigned his appointment and accused him of running a non-inclusive government and owing him N27 million. Nwadike also claimed he was repeatedly left in the dark and denied access to the  government despite his over 20 years of political association.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video The governor replied: “So, this aide who accused his boss of non-inclusiveness, unfortunately, we’re not running a limited liability company, where shareholders must all vie for…I don’t know how I will owe N77.2 million to an aide, you are talking about my political adviser, I don’t know what he sold to me that I bought.” Reacting to recent call by Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara that his citizens should apply for guns for self-protection, Uzodimma said there was no need for such actions in Imo State. “The situation in Imo is not the same with that in Zamfara State. “However, on the governor’s call for individuals to apply for licences, I think the authorities will only give licenses to a qualified and a legible candidate. “But I don’t think there is a need for individuals or unauthorized people to carry arms. “The situation in Imo State is currently being managed and we have seen relative peace for the past weeks in Imo and normal businesses have incrementally resumed in Imo State. “I am not in Zamfara State to know the situation there but I don’t think that the security situation in Zamfara State or any other part of the country is beyond our security agencies. “In Imo State, the security agencies have risen to the occasion, they are working in synergy and the situation has been controlled to a barest minimum.” he added. The governor also used the opportunity to condemn recent attacks on Churches and the kidnapping of some clergymen.