This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Noah Ebije, Kaduna Her name is Prophetess Mercy Odoom, Senior Pastor and General Overseer of Tabernacle of Mercy Prophetic Ministry, Kaduna. In this exclusive interview with Daily Sun, Pastor Odoom, whose name has nothing to do with doom, but a striking resemblance, said she abandoned a mouth-watering job for evangelism about 29 years ago, just as she disclosed that only God could remove Buhari. Before venturing into Evangelism, where have you worked? I worked in a clearing and forwarding agency since I read Purchasing and Supply in school. I was doing well but once you have the calling of God upon and you want to succeed, you must answer the call, especially because coping with the two jobs might be very difficult and the two are so demanding. Since I see the call of God upon my life as touching lives and saving souls, I decided to quit my job. Ok, let’s talk about Nigeria, today our President is sick and out of the country and some Nigerians are saying he should resign, what’s your reaction to this? One thing everyone should know is that nobody can be enthroned except God does that. And if God puts someone on the throne it will only take God’s decision to remove the person. Men might make lot of noises but it takes the final decision of God for that person to be removed; examples abound in the Bible. Even the prophets of old will go back to God and say this is what the people are saying. In the book of 1 & 2 Samuel where the people cry to God for a king to rule them like other nations, I know if the people had the power they would have removed Prophet Samuel but they only made noise and could not dethrone him, this shows that it takes God to enthrone and dethrone. In the same vein, if God did not remove President Muhammadu Buhari it might be difficult for any man to remove him because God puts him there. There is nothing that is happening in the affairs of men that God is not aware of. So God knows President Muhammadu Buhari is coming to the throne and already knows when He (God) will decide to remove him. In my personal view, we should join hands and pray for the president. In this ministry we do pray for the president, and both in the block of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria and in the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), we even have specific days of prayer and fasting because it is biblical that we should pray for our leaders. We do this for the president to come back and do his divine assignment concerning this nation. There are so many prophets and prophetesses in the country; some have come up to say this is what God has told them about Buhari that he’s coming back alive while others said he’s not coming back alive. Has God told you anything about Buhari? (Laughter). I did not ask God about whether the president is coming back or not; and what you did not ask God he will not answer you. God is not a liar and the Bible says ‘let all men be lairs and only God be true. ‘So what God did not tell me as a Prophetess I can’t tell anyone not even the nation. But what my bible tells me is to pray for my leaders and in the process of praying for the president if God reveal anything as to his return or not to me, He will do it. And until that time I’ll wait for God to speak to me before I tell the nation. The 2019 politics is equally taking shape and Nigerians are afraid that it could be bloody. As a prophetess what is your advice to Nigerians? You see, God is the overall and we’ve heard many things like that before where people say the elections will be bloody and that is why I refer us to go back to God in prayers. There is nothing so serious about elections if the people really know what it means to choose a leader. If not for selfish reasons, why should elections be bloody? You have your choice and I also have my own choice, we go to the poll and decide, let it be transparent and whosoever wins be announced and God will enthrone the person. You see it is what people cook in their hearts and because of greed; people think every elections in this country must be bloody, by fire by force. Why must it be so? My advice to Nigerians is that we should reason and make sure that whatever you believe in, believe in that God and that prayer. It is God that enrich, there are people that go into richness by all means and might not even last. So why shed blood because you want to acquire power or come to the throne? I don’t think the 2019 elections will be bloody after all even the 2015 elections we all witnessed it when people said it was going to be bloody. But with God on our side we all witnessed it and at the end of it we had a peaceful election. People that know and fear God in this nation prayed and the elections were held peacefully; even when people taught the incumbent and his opponent were at loggerhead, God stepped in and the other one honourably gave way. In fact that one gave glory to God and gave honour to this nation that in situation like the one at hand Nigeria was able to handle it amicably. Let people that are making noise continue to make their noise, but I know that God is on the throne. I don’t foresee it being bloody, it is what each and every individual believe in, that will work but I know God is above all.