This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Apart from being the only herbalist who, without me giving the details, knew the type of local medicine I took for the cure of my diabetes 15 years ago, there was another thing that showed me that Dr. (Mrs.) Folarin is an expert in the non – orthodox treatment of diseases. This came to light when I asked her the fee she charges for the treatment of prostate problem. Because I said problem and not problems I had expected her to give me one price. But she began her answer telling me that prostate disease is two – fold. That one is the enlargement of the gland and the other is the organ being cancerous. As a result, she said she has two fees. With this I knew she was an iconic and a thoroughbred practitioner not a half – baked one. Another thing that made me believe that Dr. Folarin is capable of curing people of prostate cancer was the response she gave on another issue I raised with her. This was the suggestion that she should go to public or private hospitals to let doctors know that she successfully treats prostate enlargement and cures cancerous ones. And that once she proves this to them through a patient each one will send to her, that I was sure they would go into partnership with her and start referring people with prostate problems to her.  As it turned out, she had had the opportunity to do so some years ago when a man she cured went back to his orthodox doctor for a test to know if his prostate cancer nightmare was over. When this was confirmed the doctor came to Mrs. Folarin to discuss a working relationship. But the effort came to naught because the physician wanted a 50 – 50 per cent sharing formula per patient that he would send to her. Whereas she was for 70 per cent for her and 30 per cent for him. Since he would only be referring patients to her and not taking part in the purchase and preparation of the medicine for curing them. He also rejected her upgrading his fee to 35 per cent and slashing hers down to 65 per cent. As those with prostate enlargement problem or cancer know, the treatment is very expensive and surgery may not even bring cure. Sometimes a patient may undergo two or more operations and still not live long thereafter. From what I heard from the victims of the disease and from their relatives and close friends, surgical operation costs anything from about four hundred thousand naira (N400, 000) in hospitals in low – cost areas of Lagos like Agege, Ajegunle, Alimosho and Mushin, and one million to two million naira (N1, 000, 000 – N2, 000, 000) or more in high spot places like Lekki, Victoria Island, Ikoyi, Apapa and Ikeja. As I recounted in last week’s column my friend, a retired army colonel, who died in March, this year spent more than three million naira treating the disease in the last two years of his life. He was in India in 2015 for an operation in a trip that his wife accompanied him to undertake. He had another surgery in Lagos last year and was bedridden and in great pains in his last twelve months on earth, unable to eat or drink anything by himself. It was very saddening seeing the six feet plus tall and bulky – framed colonel groaning and at times weeping because of excruciating and seething condition he was in. The advice I have for men who can afford it, is that as from the age of 40 or 50 they should go for prostate specific antigen test and others every two or three years to avoid having prostate enlargement or cancer. For those who are already in either of these two situations I recommend they go to Dr. Folarin or any herbalist they know is an expert in treating the disease. Instead of the four hundred thousand naira or the one million to two million or more naira orthodox doctors charge for prostate cancer operation, her fee for curing the disease in which no surgery is carried out is one hundred and fifty thousand naira, while she takes one hundred thousand naira for ending prostate enlargement problem. So, for me it makes sense for men with prostate issues to try her or any other herbalist with proven ability instead of going to an orthodox doctor for operation in a hospital.  Because once one gets a cure from her, one would not need to go and waste four hundred thousand naira to one million or two million naira on prostate cancer operation. It is also my recommendation that men above the age of 50 years who can afford it should go to her, Dr. Odeyemi or any herbalist known for successfully treating prostate problems, to give them medicine to prevent having prostate enlargement. The fee of which I believe will be cheaper than those for curing enlargement or cancer. Forty – eight year-old Dr. Folarin learned herbal medicine from her paternal grandfather in their hometown of Omuaran in Kwara State and has been in practice in Lagos for 22years now. She too has taught two of her grown – up children herbal medicine. These are her first – born, a girl who is an undergraduate in a university in a state in the South – West and a 15 year – old boy in a secondary school. The other diseases she treats are arthritis, diabetes, stroke, menstruation and pregnancy problems, fibroid, sickle cell anaemia, malaria, typhoid, haemorrhoid (pile), ulcer and high blood pressure.  I am overjoyed by the responses to last week’s column because in the first three days (Wednesday – Friday) I received phone calls and text messages for Dr. Folarin’s telephone number from 150 readers in Abuja and 26 of the 36 states in the country. These are Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Ondo, Ekiti, Edo, Delta, Anambra, Abia, Enugu, Imo, Ebonyi, Rivers, Cross River, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Kwara, Kogi, Kano, Kaduna, Niger, Plateau, Benue, Nasarawa and Taraba States. They came from people who have diabetes, prostate enlargement or cancer or who reached out to me on behalf of their dads, mums, brothers, sisters and other relatives and friends at home or abroad who have the two diseases. I have decided to call her Mrs. Folarin a doctor because that is how other herbalists describe themselves, and rightly so because like orthodox physicians they too treat and cure people. Indeed, why should someone who trained in the western way who cannot cure prostate cancer that operation cannot take care of call himself or herself doctor and an herbalist who can heal the disease with medicine and no operation not qualify to be called a doctor? The only difference between them is that one is an orthodox physician while the other is a herbal physician. Next week: The Federal Government and herbal medicine and the tribute paid by Sir Amos Ofoneme to Dr. Christopher Kolade, the broadcast and corporate guru and former Nigeria’s High Commissioner to the United Kingdom.