This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From: Sylvanus Viashima, Jalingo The governors of Ekiti, Plateau, Gombe states and several other dignitaries joined  Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State  to pay their final tribute to the late former governor of  the state, Danbaba Danfulani Suntai, as he was laid to rest in his home town in Suntai. They paid their tributes, on Saturday, at the Jolly Nyame stadium where family, friends and political associates gathered in their numbers for the state funeral service of Late Governor Danbaba Suntai. Governor Ayodele Fayose, who is also the Chairman of PDP Governor’s Forum, said that Suntai was a “lesson to be learnt by all politicians”, while noting that “even though the people are saddened by the circumstances of his death, the assurance of his blissful living right now was a great consolation “. Fayose insisted that he anchors his association with people on truth and justice and could only come all the way to Taraba for Suntai’s burial because of how much he contributed to the growth of humanity. Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo of Gombe State, on his part, said that he learnt so much from the late Suntai who genuinely meant and actually did well for his people. He said that he had hoped Suntai would recover fully and return to upscale his contributions to the society. In his remarks, Governor Solomon Dalong of Plateau state said that Suntai left at a time the state and the region needed his leadership the most to address some of the challenges confronting the nation. In his response, Governor Ishaku thanked the people and those that came to mourn with him, saying that the turnout and show of concern and love for Suntai was sufficient testimony to how much he impacted the lives of the people. Ishaku said that Suntai’s exemplary humility, generosity, dedication and flair for the peace of the state stood him out among his colleagues. Governors of Adamawa and Benue state, who were represented by other officials, former governors, senators political associate and other top government functionaries, past and present, all extolled the virtues of the late governor Danbaba Suntai and prayed that God would grant the family the fortitude to bear the irreplaceable lost. Suntai, who died two days to his 63rd birthday at a hospice in Florida, from injuries he sustained after his plane crashed in 2012, was laid to rest at his hometown, in Suntai, Bali Local Government Area of the state.