This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.   It’s a thing for young musicians with music that is easily relatable by fans to be successful, and this sets Duprie on a good path as he has a good reception since his music debut in 2017because his music not only communicates vibes but sense. The versatility, spontaneity and uniqueness of the self-taught artist is no doubt applaudable. Duprie is not just a kind of artiste that wants to make money or fame without making sense neither is he the type of artiste who just wants to copy and paste what the A-list music artistes are doing, he prefers being unique and staying true to himself while always pushed his creative limits. The maestro, Duprie, just sounds like himself and no one else, and it is naturally hopeful for the world to want to experience more of what he has to offer. More than anything, the singer wants his listeners to immerse themself in the emotions behind each single every time they press play, “What matters to me the most as an artist is to be able to effectively tell stories through my music so how people relate to my music will be an indicator of that goal. As someone that isn’t bound by trends or set standards, I would like to have a well-established audience in all the genres of music that I make within the next 5 to 10 years” he says. The lyrical genius made his debut in the year 2017 with Damrex Records, a label he Co-founded and has since been working with.Duprie can be sure to continuously please the ears with hot bangers back-to-back. In fact, it is amazing that he didn’t even bother to give anyone a break while still serving his plates hot with the release of his chart topping, wave making, hit single titled, “Playboy” which he features Ahkan in. He got everyone talking while solidifying his stance in the industry as shortly after this track and goes on to drop another smashing hit titled “Le Ndem”.  This hit and the accompanying ones broke a record in the minds of everyone leading to over several thousands of downloads on all social Media platforms. Apparently, it seemed to have enjoyed a good run in the second half of this year. This has so far as revealed that he has much more to offer as he has boldly claimed openly. He has continued to impress everyone who comes across. Having been in the music scene since 2010 primarily as a songwriter in the Afro-Pop and Afro-RnB genres, Duprie’s vocal style is both uniquely Cameroonian and unique to him, so unpacking it requires going back to his roots. Through his passion for conscious music, Duprie aims to inspire his peers to see their music as a platform for expressing a distinctly Cameroonian identity in rap, both through sound and storytelling that speaks specifically to the locals, “I think my greatest strength is that I make music on stuff I am very passionate about. Some of my music may not align with what is trending but that is fine because I don’t make music that in mind. As a result, I can always guarantee my audience a level of connection and emotion to my music that only comes from a genuine passion for what you do. I would never expect my listeners to enjoy a song I didn’t enjoy making and I am certain that is the one thig my listeners will be able to take out of my music” he concludes.