This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin Kebbi Eminent personalities and an array of other guests attended the grandiose wedding of three daughters of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) National President and a Gwandu traditional title holder, Alhaji Nasir Idris, Kauran Gwandu, in Birnin Kebbi, on Saturday. Kebbi Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu led a large delegation of top government functionaries to witness the holy matrimony held at the private residence of Alhaji Idris and the Deputy National President of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC). Governor Bagudu served as Waliyyi (Guardian) to Balkisu Nasir Idris who gave out her hand in marriage to Yahaya Buhari Ali on the payment of a N50,000 dowry. The senator representing Kebbi Central, Senator Muhammadu Aliero, served as Waliyyi for Fatima Nasir Idris which attracted a similar amount of dowry in her wedlock to Nafiu Bello Haruna. Likewise, the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, SAN, stood in as Waliyyi to Naja’atu Nasir Idris in the holy matrimony between her and Usman Sani Hukuma Zauro on the payment of a N50,000 dowry. Islamic clerics on the occasion prayed that Allah showers the three couples with His blessings and endow them with good off-springs. The father of the brides, Alhaji Nasir Idris, Kauran Gwandu, as the chief host at the ceremony, was honoured by the presence of NLC President Ayuba Wabba, who led national and state executives of the congress, the Deputy Governor of Kebbi State, Colonel Samaila Yombe Dabai (retd), former governor of the state Alhaji Saidu Nasamu Dakingari and former governor of Zamfara State Ahmed Sani Yariman Bakura. Also in attendance were former minister of Internal Affairs, General Muhammadu Magoro, the Chief of Staff (Government House, Birnin Kebbi), Alhaji Suleiman Muhammad Argungu (Jarman Kabi), the Secretary to the State Government, Babale Umar Yauri, Acting Head of Service, Alhaji Safiyanu Garba Bena, former Minister of Science and Technology Professor Muhammad Abubakar Kaoje, commissioners, permanent secretaries, special advisers, traditional leaders, the business community, labour leaders, politicians and well wishes. Afterwards, Governor Bagudu attended the wedding Fatiha of Engineer Faruk Sanusi Umar and Zainab Ahmad Faruk at the palace of Abdullahi Fodio. Present were the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, a first-class emir, the Mai Bade, from Yobe State, Alhaji Abubakar Suleiman, who joined the Emir of Gwandu and the Chairman, Kebbi State Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Muhammadu Iliyasu Bashar, to partake in the Islamic marriage ceremony. Governor Bagudu also played host to Governor Bello Masari of Katsina State and his entourage. Tho duo and other important personalities were at the residence of Magajin Garin Gwandu at Kofar Kola where the Magajin Garin Gwandu, Alhaji Aminullah Umar, gave out the hand of marriage of the daughter of his younger brother, Alhaji Buhari Bala. The Katsina governor served as the Wakil of the groom, Muhammad Muhsin, while the Kebbi governor served as the Waliyyi to Ramatu Jamila Buhari Bala. N100,000 was paid as dowry before the wedding was solemnised.