This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Rose Ejembi, Makurdi Popular musician and a former President of the Performing Musicians Association of Nigeria (PMAN) Charles Oputa a.k.a. Chalie Boy has charged Nigerian youths to take their rightful place in nation building. Charlie Boy  gave this charge, on Thursday, in Makurdi, the Benue State capital, during the formal launch of his project tagged, “Our Mumu Don Do” in Benue maintained that the time has come for the young people to arise and get involved in decision making and leadership of the country. “We are here to make young people realize that they are part of nation building. For them wake up from their slumber and start to get involved because nothing will change until they change their attitude. “And that is why as an area father, I am here to encourage young people that they can get a Nigeria that is befitting for them and that they can take their country back. He explained further that the Our Mumu Don Do project seeks to bring forth a paradigm shift from the previous belief that young people are not fit to occupy leadership positions in the country. “Since independence, we have been plagued with so many problems. We have had past leaders telling us that the future belongs to the youths but then they have occupied the space with no space for young people to grow. “I’m a baby of the early 50s and so, I would say that it is my generation and the generation before me that is responsible for this wroth and responsible for creating an environment that is not suitable for young people. “And on behalf of my generation, I apologize but like I always tell young people, it’s not just to sit down and be agonizing about the situation but for them to organize and take charge of their future because after all, we know that the future of the youths in this country has been stolen by the status quo. “So, its time for the youths to take charge and this is what Our Mumu Don Do is all about. And that is why we are collaborating with INEC because the youth have to know that their vote is their one on one essential power and they are entitled to it. But if you don’t sensitize them enough the will still leave it for the older generation,” he stated.