This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Stakeholders in South-East, on Wednesday, applauded the All Progressives Congress (APC) for sustaining democracy in the country. They also praised the APC government for translating the hopes and dreams of the people into reality and creating for Nigeria an environment of good order and civilization. “The All Progressives Congress (APC) government is the most efficient and accountable in the history of Nigeria’s democracy” At a meeting focused on mapping out strategies for the November 2017 Anambra State Governorship Election, the leaders praised the National Chairman of APC, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun for opening up the ruling party to every Nigerian citizen and compelling government functionaries at the various levels to better their people and their surroundings. A statement from the South-East Unity and Advancement Forum (SEUAAF) after the meeting in Awka described the alleged N850 Million bribery story as wicked, baseless and reckless. “The story is spurious. It is a political fabrication aimed at undermining the national chairman’s integrity and causing confusion in the party” The leaders condemned the suspended National Deputy Publicity Secretary of APC, Comrade Timi Frank and those behind him for encouraging anarchy in the party.  “It is totally irresponsible for Frank and his sponsors to promote chaos and tribal bitterness in the country’s ruling party. Frank and his sponsors want to turn back the clock on the progress we have made” Signed by SEUAAF National Chairman, Chief Maxwell Okoye, the leaders charged Oyegun, APC National Leader, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki, former vice president, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and others to work round the clock to ensure that the party wins in Anambra, Ekiti and Osun states.  “We come from different background with divergent political ideologies. We also hold a variety of views. However, let us put the people ahead of political interest. Let us support President Muhammadu Buhari, Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo and the National Working Committee of our great party in creating a country which everyone experiences a better life. Let us work in cooperation for 2019”. Oyegun,  according to the leaders, transformed APC into a formidable, highly disciplined political machine that outperformed other parties in presidential, national assembly and governorship elections in Nigeria, They also promised to teach All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and others a lesson in democracy on Saturday, November 18, 2017.