This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. By Oye Ogunwale  A popular cleric based in Ibadan, Oyo State, Prophet Muhideen Kasali, has warned those who have stolen money from the nation’s coffers to return such loot now or face God’s anger.  He spoke recently at Ori-oke Alaseyori, a prayer programme that holds every first Thursday of the month at Moniya, Ibadam. He said God was angry with Nigerian politicians and top government officials for disappointing the people, especially the poor masses and for mismanaging the nation’s wealth. Kasali said the present crop of leaders should quit the stage for younger and more vibrant Nigerians, adding that those that have stolen from the nation’s treasury should refund such loot to avert face severe punishment.          “I want to use this medium to call on all Nigerians, irrespective of tribe, religion or political party, to cooperate with the present federal government to move the nation forward and tackle the current security, economic and other problems facing the nation. Whatever happens to Nigeria will affect everybody, old and young, female or male. My appeal also goes to those Nigerian leaders and politicians who have helped themselves to our commonwealth to return it to the government either secretly or otherwise. “There are many of them that are honest, but are being overwhelmed by the majority who care for themselves and their families alone. See what is happening since General Muhammadu Buhuri was elected President. He has good intentions, but a cabal has hijacked the government. In any case, he has achieved what God wanted him to do to rescue the nation, that is, to fight and put an end to Boko Haram, expose and deal with corruption and lay a solid economic foundation for Nigeria. All these he has achieved in the past two years.  “You can see that the same cabal disturbing President Buhari is also working against Acting President Yemi Osinbajo. If not for Buhari’s intervention, Boko Haram would have taken over the entire nation, or at least extend their operations to many parts of Nigeria,” he said.  He advised that the country should assemble a crack team of economists as well as well-meaning, detribalised and trustworthy Nigerians to assist government. Kasali also had a message for political gladiators in Ekiti: “God is warning politicians in Ekiti State to tread softly. I foresee a bloody political crisis erupting in the state, which can become a serious problem to the entire nation.” He urged the federal government to lift the ban on the importation of rice, noting that the nation was still incapable of producing enough rice locally to meet the demand of the people. In his opinion, the way out of the nation’s economic quagmire was for Nigerians to go into massive agricultural activities to produce food for local consumption and export to earn foreign exchange for the country. Government should support farmers financially and provide incentives, fertilizer, seeds and roads for them. The cleric called on all religious leaders to pray for Nigeria, even as he dispelled insinuations that some government functionaries were seeking to Islamise the nation. “It’s not possible to impose any religion on the nation,” he said. “Any government that tries it will fail and God Himself will remove that government before it happens.”