This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has advised the APC led Federal Government that only additional State creation for the southeast will upturn the recent gaffes and losses for APC to make inroads in the southeast especially with the electoral loss in Anambra State governorship election. In a statement, Secretary General of the apex Igbo sociocultural group, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro said: ” Ndigbo have never done or faired well in the opposition political parties, they are constantly known to be in the mainstream party since 1960. But since 2015, despite the level of improved infrastructural development across the southeast, APC National leadership wonders why the party continues to flop and stagger in the southeast during the elections and 2023 will not be an exception if right decisions are not taken. ” The only reason why they continue to fail lies in the fact that APC is yet to do the right thing, as they have rightly addressed some peculiar problems facing other regions. “In the southwest, they granted Abiola the rights of a President and declare June 12 as democracy Day to pacify the southwest even when the have key positions in the government including the office of the Vice President,  FG has agreed to clean up Ogoni-land, built Maritime University, open up standard guage of railways in Delta state and proposed presidential pardon for the late Ken Saro-Wiwa and others for the people of the Niger/Delta, the only thing southeast expects is an additional state from President Buhari as a legacy gift for the southeast”. The statement further said: “Today, We have officially received the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Committee report on the additional state creation for the southeast which approved of the Aba state creation,” “We wish to thank all the members of the Prof Ogbu led Committee on additional state creation for the southeast for the excellent job and unbiased reports that favored the creation of the Aba State, especially the Secretary of the committee, Dimm Uche Okwukwu for standing on the path to honor and presented the reports to Igbo leadership. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo committee on additional State creation gave detailed knowledge on why equity and justice supported the Aba state ahead of other state movements in the southeast, from Old Anambra and the Imo States, it was empirical that old Anambra has three states created from it with three capitals in Awka( New Anambra), Enugu( Enugu state) and Abakiliki( Ebonyi state) while Old IMO state has only two States with only two capitals, Umuahia ( Abia) and Owerri ( IMO), and the committee recommended the creation of Aba state from Old Imo state and strategically Aba has the economic potentials for her survival as a new State.” Mazi Isiguzoro further added that Ohanaeze will dispatch the Southeast New State reports to President Buhari, southeast Governors, and National Assembly leadership for quick actions. “This is the best way for APC led Federal Government can upturn the colossal failures and flourish in the southeast by addressing the structural imbalance of 5 states in the southeast with 95 Local Government Areas. FG is expected to initiate the process of creating additional state ( Aba state) for the southeast, this will end Biafra agitation and gain support for APC in the southeast, apart from it APC will continue to fight for her survival in the southeast”, it concludes.