This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. There is no iota of doubt that Beausoleil Victor Emmanuel Mervyn knows the subject matter of leadership very well.    At 24 years old, the man known popularly as Vicsoleil on Instagram founded the multi-million dollar Redemption Reintegration Services, and many years after, he is a co-founder of Canada’s minority empowerment impact organisation, Social Economy Through Social Inclusion (SETSI).   His take on leadership is simple and straightforward: leadership is a product of good vision and not necessarily of power.   He made this statement while sharing insight about his leadership drive: “When I co-founded Redemption Reintegration Services and received $3.5 million from the United Way of Greater Toronto and the Province of Ontario, I was inspired to make a lasting impact. That energy and vigour remain with me now fourteen years later as the Principal of Intuit Consulting and Executive Director of SETSI.”   He continued: “The key insight I reflect on is that leadership is not about power it is about vision and responsibility and the development of a resilient and loyal team of colleagues is the foundation for sustainability.”   Born and raised in Toronto, Vicsoleil has worked and volunteered in the broader equity-seeking communities across Ontario for 10 years. While he is still resident in Toronto with his wife and four children, he is widely travelled across Africa, especially in Ghana, where he is involved in community development. Of his passion for community development, he said: “My father has been a deacon for the past 30 years at Prince of Peace Parish in Canada, and my mother worked for the federal government of Canada. The work of my parents informed my passion for community development, service and philanthropy.”   He further added: “I have been supporting community development work in Ghana since I was 21 years old. I was the Co-Chair of the Manya Krobo Youth Coordinating Committee. My connection to Africa began at the age of 19 when I co-founded African Educators of Toronto with my wife and a few of my colleagues. We established the (ABC) African Book Collaborative, which provided door-to-door service from our vehicles with books on the history, spirituality, politics and nations of Africa to our subscribed members.”