This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja The United Kingdom (UK) has said beginning from March 18 Nigerians intending to travel to the United Kingdom do not need to show evidence of COVID-19 test as a precondition. The United Kingdom stated this in its latest updates and guidance on COVID-19. The United Kingdom said: “From 4am Friday 18 March, all COVID-19 travel restrictions will be lifted, including the passenger locator form (PLF) for arrivals into UK, as well as all tests for passengers who do not qualify as vaccinated. This change, therefore, removes the need for unvaccinated passengers to take a pre-departure test and a day two post arrival test. “This step reflects the decisions taken by the government, as set out in the Living with COVID plan, and the success of the UK’s vaccine and booster rollout, with 86 percent of the population having received a second dose and 67 percent of the population with a booster or third dose.” Following the development, the United Kingdom Transport Secretary, Grant Shapps said: “The UK is leading the world in removing all remaining COVID-19 travel restrictions, and today’s announcement is a testament to the hard work everyone in this country has put in place to roll out the vaccine and protect each other. “I said we wouldn’t keep travel measures in place for any longer than necessary, which we’re delivering on today – providing more welcome news and greater freedom for travellers ahead of the Easter holidays. “I look forward to continuing to work with the travel sector and partners around the world to keep international travel moving.” Also, United Kingdom Health and Social Care Secretary, Sajid Javid said: “As we learn to live with COVID-19, we’re taking further steps to open up international travel once again ahead of the Easter holidays. “We will continue monitoring and tracking potential new variants and keep a reserve of measures that can be rapidly deployed if needed to keep us safe. “We can remove these final restrictions thanks to the incredible success of our vaccination programme, which has seen more than 8 out of 10 adults across the UK boosted.” The United Kingdom further said to ensure the protection of public health, the government will maintain a range of contingency measures in reserve, which would enable it to take swift and proportionate action to delay any future harmful variants of COVID-19 entering the UK should the need arise. “In future, the government’s default approach will be to use the least stringent measures, if appropriate, to minimise the impact on travel as far as possible – given the high personal, economic and international costs border measures can have – and the contingency measures will only be implemented in extreme circumstances. “Given the current state of the pandemic and a move towards global travel volumes returning to normal, the remaining managed hotel quarantine capacity will be fully stood down from the end of March,” the United Kingdom stated.