This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Magnus Eze, Enugu Enugu State Governor, Chief Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has assured workers in the state’s local government system that they will soon join their counterparts in the core ministries to enjoy the N30, 000 minimum wage. This is as the Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) threatened that its members can only support any political party that prioritizes actualisation of local government autonomy, in the 2023 general elections. Ugwuanyi disclosed this in Enugu, Thursday, at the 8th Quadrennial Delegates Conference of NULGE, Enugu State chapter. Represented by the Commissioner for Labour and Productivity, Uchechukwu Ogbonna, the governor said that the modalities for the implementation of the new wage was being worked in the local councils. Daily Sun gathered that the state government commenced the implementation of the minimum wage in February 2020 but only in the core ministries. “The state government is solidly behind local government workers to ensure they enjoy what their counterparts are enjoying. “With the speed we are working on the implementation, it will not be long before we conclude,” he said. National President of NULGE, Ambali Olatunji noted that State Governments have abused and emasculated the local government system to the extent that it now looks like the councils were no more the third tier of government. NULGE also stressed that payment of minimum wage would no longer be subjected to further debate in the states, noting that as constitution demands, the council workers in every state should be paid the minimum wage of N30,000 without encumbrances. “Ambali said: “All of us are witnessing systemic decay of the local government system caused by state political actors who are mismanaging the resources of the local councils. “This cannot continue. It is as a result of this disconnect between the leaders and the led that most people are agitating in the country. “We, however, state that nobody has the power to temper with tenureship of local governments because the local government councils are the only avenue for development of the country. “Once we solve the local government problem, we would have solved Nigeria problem. We also want to state that NULGE will not support any political party that does not recognize local government autonomy and a way for local government autonomy is a way for Nigeria.” In the election that followed, the incumbent NULGE President in the state, Comrade Kenneth Ugwueze was elected unopposed for a second term in office together with 11 other executive committee members.