This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Wole Balogun, Ado Ekiti Ekiti State Governor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, has said President Muhammadu Buhari and his party, All Progressives Congress (APC), duped Nigerians by obtaining their votes by trick, declaring: “Everything Buhari and his party promised Nigerians when they were looking for votes, they have denied and it won’t be a surprise if one day, Buhari comes out to even deny that he was elected on the platform of APC.” The governor described Buhari’s declaration that he would not pay the N5,000 stipend he promised to unemployed youths in the country; and Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed’s claim, that creation of three million jobs per year was not promised by APC, as the peak of political 419 that the president and his party represent. He said: “They have not fulfilled any of the promises they made to Nigerians. In fact, they have even told us that they never made any promise. It is close to one year that Buhari assumed office; no single job has been created. Instead of the three million jobs per year that they promised, what we have been witnessing is job losses, economic hardship and budget padding.”  Speaking through his Special Assistant on Public Communications and New Media, Lere Olayinka, Governor Fayose said it was more worrisome that President Buhari always choose foreign lands to make major policy pronouncements, asking whether Buhari has turned himself to Nigeria’s diaspora or online president. Governor Fayose described Buhari’s declaration of support for Palestine and description of Palestinians as his brothers and sisters that must achieve their desired objectives as a confirmation of the growing suspicion that the president was interested in Nigeria becoming a full Islamic State. He said: “Even though I am a lover of Muslims, I relate with them as I do with Christians across the country, but Nigeria must remain secular and a free nation where the citizens proclaim the name of Jesus Christ and Allah (Subhanahu Wa Ta’ala) freely.” The governor said the moment President Buhari disowned his own campaign document entitled: “My Covenant with Nigerians,” that was circulated to Nigerians during the electioneering and also published in national newspapers and posted online on March 16 and 17, 2015, he knew that Nigerians had been duped. “Nigerians have now realised that they are inside a ‘One Chance Bus’ because Buhari and his APC have disowned their entire campaign promises by disowning their campaign document entitled: “My Covenant with Nigerians.”