This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Uche Usim, Abuja The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has disclosed that the reported explosion which jolted Abule Ado area of Lagos State in the mornin hours of Sunday sprang from a truck that hit some gas cylinders stacked in a gas processing plant located near the corporation’s system 2B Pipeline right of way. Spokesman of NNPC, Dr. Kennie Obateru, in a statement said that preliminary findings indicated that the impact of the explosion was so huge that it led to the collapse of nearby houses and huge damage to NNPC pipeline on which efforts are being made to curtail the resultant fire. He disclosed that the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mr Mele Kyari and other top management of the corporation departed Abuja for Lagos on Sunday evening for an on-the-spot assessment at the scene of the incident. Obateru stated that following the report of the explosion, the corporation quickly halted ongoing pumping operations on the Atlas Cove-Mosimi pipeline which was active at the time. The release explained that NNPC had already mobilised its in-house combined team consisting of health safety environment experts, medical and security personnel from its nearby Satellite depot in Lagos, even as Lagos State Fire Service had also rallied to extinguish the fire. The release said more fire firefighting personnel and equipment were mobillised from the NNPC Mosimi Area Office to provide extra fillip to the ongoing operation.   While urging members of the public and residents of the affected communities to remain calm, the NNPC’s spokesman assured that the temporary shutdown of the petroleum products pipeline would not affect the normal supply of products to the Lagos and its environs. He said the fire currently burning at controlled condition was being fought headlong, saying a detail assessment of the incident was underway to establish the extent of damage to the pipeline. Kyari, commiserated with the victims of the incident, praying that God provides them succour at this hour.