This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Timothy Olanrewaju, Maiduguri Governor-elect of Borno State, Prof Babagana Zulum has promised to unravel and address the causes of Boko Haram insurgency in the state. Zulum who received his certificate of return following the outcome of the February 23 governorship election in the state said on Wednesday he was determined to find the root of the violence that has troubled the northeastern state for nearly a decade. “I desire to address the root causes of Boko Haram because it is by so doing we can put the problem at rest,” Zulum declared after collecting his certificate from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Maiduguri. He said he would also make rehabilitation, reconstruction of destroyed public facilities and resettlement of people displaced by the insurgency a priority. He said government ought to fast-track development in the state as one of the practical approaches to addressing the effects of the conflict. He said the insurgency had affected millions of people, calling for more support. He said his administration would develop strategies to create job opportunities for millions of unemployed youths while pledging to promote discipline and social rehabilitation among people. He urged the national and state legislators in the state to support his administration to enable him put up effective leadership and move the state forward. INEC Federal Commissioner in charge of Adamawa, Borno and Taraba states, AVM Ahmed Mu’azu (retd), said the presentation of certificate of return to elected political office holders was mandatory for the commission in line with Section 75 of the Electoral Act. Mu’azu who was assisted by the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mohammed Magaji, urged the governor-elect and other elected representatives to deliver their campaign promises to the electorate and work for the development of the state and country at large. He lauded election officials, ad hoc staff for their commitment to the conduct of the general elections.