This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Tony Osauzo, Benin A Benin based Lebanese businessman, Mr. Ali Fawaz, has reportedly escaped death by the whiskers, following an attack by suspected land grabbers at his business premises in Benin. He was said to have been attacked alongside some workers who were erecting a perimeter fence, to build lockup shops at his property. The incident, which occurred on Saturday, at Al-Hussein Nigeria Manufacturing Limited, located at Ogbomo street, off Sapele road km.6 Etete village, left two people seriously injured. It was learnt that the attack caused panic as residents living within the vicinity took to their heels for fear of being attacked or hit by bullets.  Spokesman of the Edo State Police Command, Mr Bello Kontongs, who confirmed the report said two suspects have been arrested in connection with the attack which was allegedly led by a suspected thug, Eribo  Uwabgia, who claimed to be acting under the instructions of the Enogie (Duke) of Etete.  Uwabgia, who was arrested and detained at the new Etete Police station, reportedly laid claims to a parcel of land in the premises and demanded  ‘settlement fee’ from the Lebanese which he declined. Fawaz, who was at his office during the incident, appealed to Governor Godwin Obaseki and security agencies to curb the activities of these hoodlums who parade themselves as community leaders to unleash mayhem on the people. “I am still in shock over what happened here. Eribo came here with armed thugs and demolished the blocks my workers erected where I had planned to make an additional gate and lockup shops.  “He threatened to shoot anybody who attempted to stop him calling me a foreigner and that he was going to deal with me. I had earlier reported the matter at the Etete New Police station because he had boasted that he is untouchable.  “I am calling on the state governor and relevant government authority to please come to my rescue. I am a law abiding citizen and have contributed my quota to the development of this state. I’m a citizen of this country by naturalisation. I need protection against these deadly thugs,” he pleaded.