An aspirant for the position of Boki 2 State Constituency in the Cross River House of Assembly under the APC, Mr Bajie Odu Ekum, has promised to use the new age of Information and Communication Technology to provide sustainable jobs for youths of the Constituency if elected into the Assembly in 2023. Bajie, who spoke with newsmen on the sidelines of his consultation ahead of his official declaration for the position, said that a lot of opportunities abounds in the digital age through ICT. The aspirant also gave assurance that youths from the constituency would undergo entrepreneurial and skill acquisition training with a view to equip them with employable skills needed in today’s job market. Bajie, a humble and easy going personality, hails from Kpat in Bawop, Kakwagom/Bawop ward in Boki local government area of Cross River. He holds a B.sc in Sociology, M.Sc in Medical Sociology and Ph.D in view, Sociology. According to him, he intends to use ICT to transform the knowledge-base and intellectual capacity of youths in his constituency by getting them to be productively engaged. He noted that developing an open and competitive ICT centre in Boki 2 has the potentials of contributing to the economic growth of Boki, Cross River and Nigeria at large. “Before now, I have trained youths from my community on Computer Marketing, application and software designs with a view to engage them productively. Speaking on his aspiration, Bajie said: “I am qualified, well read, I’m a team player, a grassroot politician, I’m humble, accessible, honest and above all, I have the fear of God in me”. He maintained that he is coming on board to change the narrative of representation by connecting heart-to-heart with the people and delivering the dividends of democracy to them. He said that his aspiration to run for the State House of Assembly election was borne out of the desire of his people, who have been urging him to get into race and represent them. The frontline aspirant hinted that if elected, he would serve the interest of his constituents and prioritize their concerns for the growth of the constituency. Bajie said that the support and open doors he has received from party chieftains and critical stakeholders was overwhelming and encouraging. He called on the people of Boki 2, irrespective of political affiliation, to weigh their support behind him with a view to help him clinch the party’s ticket and win the election.