This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. By Zika Bobby The Communio Sanctorum Ministries, Awka, Anambra State, recently ended months of prayers and crusades, as part of activities to ensure a peaceful Nigeria. The crusade attracted over 150,000 people in one night, as they praised God for using their Spiritual Director, Very Rev. Fr. Bonachristus Umeogu, to lift their burden. At the crusade ground many went home with cash and food items. In his sermon, the Catholic priest charged Christians to show unconditional love to humanity. He said there would have been nothing like Christianity if there was no Jesus Christ, who is the essence of the faith. He encouraged Christians to imbibe the spirit of forgiveness, urging leaders in all spheres of life to lead by example. He called on Christians to submit themselves in prayers before God concerning the difficult times facing Nigeria, even as he expressed sadness when he addressed the congregation, saying hard days were ahead, unless Christians returned to God in prayers. “We must respect our nation Nigeria and the only way to respect her is to come out from this phase of our difficult time and submit ourselves in fervent prayers to God. “I warn you that worst days are ahead and we need to turn to God,” he said. The cleric declared that President Muhammadu Buhari needed a divine message from God for things to turn around in Nigeria, even as he pronounced blessings on all who labour in prayers. Umeogu, a philosopher and lecturer at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, praised God for intervening in many families plagued by ailments and challenges and called on the wealthy few to remember the less privileged and forgotten in the society at all times. According to him, there was joy and blessing in giving rather than receiving. He urged givers to be cheerful in giving and shun giving grudgingly, even as he appealed to road users to be cautious and vigilant on the wheels. Many who benefitted from Umeogu’s International Scholarship Schemes and Foundation (BUSSA-FOUND) said God had been using the priest to deliver them from bondage. “He is a distinguished broadcaster who has authored over 116 books. students call him ‘Mr. Money Bag’ at Unizik because he carries money in Ghana Must Go bag to assist indigent students pay their school fees so that they would be allowed to write their exams,” said Chigozie Ezeumeanya, one of the crusade’s organisers.