This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Android is fast becoming hacker’s paradise. Given that it is one of the most popular and most utilized mobile OS, malicious developers and hackers are discovering new methods to exploit loopholes inside the OS. According to recent research studies done by Kaspersky, malware programs created for exploiting Android has actually increased six times than the previous year. If you suspect, your Android phone might be infected, here are some signs to search for if your android device is infected. Here are six signs of Android infection. 1. Pop-ups and unsolicited ads If your Android device is regularly showing pop-ups, you might have set up an adware inside your system. Adware infections are the simplest to fix too. Simply go to the list of Apps installed. Eliminate the App which is accountable for showing the Ads. 2. Increased data use If a harmful program gets in your Android, it might aim to connect to a data source for showing Advertisements or sending data. This indicates they consume bandwidth more than it is used generally. So if you discover your bandwidth use is unusually high, do search for a malicious app which might be consuming this bandwidth. 3. Unsolicited applications When you purchase an Android gadget, it normally comes with some Apps installed by default. These might be the extremely necessary Apps that you need for operating your phone There might be some extra Apps from your Android phone maker. Apart from that, if you notice any App that is set up without your knowledge, you have to be careful. One easy thing to do is to browse the web and check the credibility for that App. Apps that are recently developed and coming from lower recognized developers might have badly coded Apps which can be used for malicious purpose. 4. Apps need access to other functions on your phone. It is common for Applications to demand access to your address book, email lists and so on. It can be justified for certain Apps where it is needed for its smooth performance. But not all Apps require access to these details. So, if you notice an App asking for personal information which is not related to its job function, you have to suspect the App. Remove it after making an appropriate examination. 5. Unusual online activity after utilizing mobile for transactions If you notice any unusual activity reported in your online activity, there is a possibility your phone is hacked and the hackers might have delicate information. Change the password of your account. If the online activity appears to have originated from your Android, you might have harmful files inside. Eliminate unwanted and suspicious looking file. 6. Apps lock specific features in the phone unless payment is made An authentic app developer would never ever hold you to ransom by disabling specific features unless you pay for the App. Eliminate these Apps as they do not deserve to be in your Android phone. Lastly, to fix all these issues download Mobile Optimizer & Cleaner Mobile Optimizer & Cleaner can assist you to enhance Android phone performance, clear apps you don’t want and back up crucial ones, maximize your phone’s and sd card storage, boost memory and improve phone speed. If your Android phone is running sluggish you can quickly speed up your phone with Mobile Optimizer & Cleaner.