This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.   A few days ago, the veteran VPS hosting company, RouterHosting, announced that it’s rebranding to Cloudzy. I’ve devoted this news article to discussing why they have done this and how it will affect their customers.   A well-established company deciding to rebrand is nothing new, of course. Just recently Facebook announced its transformation to META, and it was not the first major tech company to do so. Sometimes, rebranding can cause users to worry about the changes about to happen. If you’re already a happy customer, change can only be bad, right? Well, not necessarily.   It seems that former-RouterHosting’s marketing team understands the customers’ anxieties because they have taken some measures to make sure the transition to Cloudzy goes as smoothly as possible.   RouterHosting has decided on a gradual rebranding strategy, evolving into its new identity step by careful step. The first step in that process is the renaming of RouterHosting for Cloudzy, and the redirection of their website to Cloudzy.com. At this stage, the design and logo will stay the same, changing only at later stages. Announcing the rebranding on their website, they write that their motivation in taking things slow has been to reassure their current users.   The entire rebranding process was set in motion by the company’s upcoming product. Cloudzy is going to launch a new Infrastructure-as-a-Service platform, a cloud-based solution that also inspired the name of the company. Of course, this new service won’t be available for a few months, serving as the final stage in the company’s evolution to Cloudzy.    But what about their old services? RouterHosting has been offering VPS hosting plans for over 8 years now, and that is what their users expect from them. So, are they going to stop offering VPS solutions and move to cloud computing? No, they’re not. As explained on their website, Cloudzy will continue to offer all the services that RouterHosting did, including their popular Forex VPS and RDP Server solutions. The company has stated that absolutely nothing will change about their VPS hosting services, with prices and performance staying the same.    Another factor that may have worried RouterHosting customers is Cloudzy’s policies on anonymity and privacy. Many RouterHosting customers used their VPS solutions because of the company’s rare commitment to maintaining its users’ privacy. In a time where even the smallest website will plant cookies on your computer to track you and get data, RouterHosting has been a refreshing exception. Not only do they not use any cookies, they also don’t ask for any kind of identity validation. That means users only need a working email address to register and order their VPS. RouterHosting also supported payment with regular cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin as well as the more secure “privacy coins” like Monero. That way, you wouldn’t even need to reveal your credit card information or leave traces by using PayPal.    So, what happens to their policy on privacy as they transition to Cloudzy? The company has answered with a clear “nothing!” They plan to continue their support of users’ privacy and anonymity, with their crypto payment and anonymous registration still intact at Cloudzy. Also, they still offer their services, therefore, if you are a Forex trader and need a Forex VPS (or even Crypto), or you need a fair trade of VPS hosting then buy VPS from Cloudzy.   So, to all current RouterHosting users: you don’t have to worry about the company discontinuing your VPS plans or stop with its anonymous VPS policies. To new customers, the company has promised a few revelations in the near future, including their new cloud-based products.