This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From: Linus Oota, Lafia Nasarawa State Chairman of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association, a Fulani socio-cultural association, Alhaji Muhammed Hussaini, has described the order by the Governor Samuel Ortom that the Fulani should leave the state as ‘unjustifiable and un-befitting of a governor’. He explained that rather than investigate the remote and immediate causes of the crisis with a view of resolving it for peace to reign in the affected areas, the governor’s action would rather aggravate the situation. Hussaini, who spoke exclusively to Daily Sun, on Monday, in Lafia, explain that Governor Ortom was governor for everybody residing in Benue State and not for only Tiv people alone, noting that the main duty of a governor was to protect the lives and properties of the people. Hear him,  “If you order Fulani out of Benue State, they will relocate to Nasarawa State and their large number will lead to more problem for the neighboring Tiv communities.  The best solution to this crisis is dialogue. “There is no justification for the order. The governor should warm the Tiv people to stop killing Fulani cows because the certificate of a Fulani man is the cow. I am disappointed that such statement is coming from a governor,” Hussaini said. Hussaini further explained that he was not exonerating Fulani herdsmen from the crisis as there were criminals among them who deliberately allowed their cows to destroy farmers crops and open fire on them, adding that such act should be seriously investigated and perpetrators brought to book. He continued, “The recent Fulani attack in Benue State affected Buruku, Gwer East, Gboko and Logo local government areas, but there are Fulani leaving peacefully with the Tiv farmers in Guma Local Government Area and even Agatu. Tthere is no crisis in Agatu any longer as the Fulani are grazing without any problem,” he said. The Miyetti Allah leader also condemned the recent protest in Abuja where the Benue and Nasarawa communities rallied against the activities of herdsmen. He advised them to have a rethink by critically accessing situations that led to the herdsmen attacks on farmers. The chairman also advised the National Assembly not to limit their ban on Fulani herdsmen carrying arms but extend it to other tribes too,  adding that every tribe in Nigeria carry arms including the Tiv people.