This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Caverton Helicopters Nigeria Limited has sealed a simulator supply contract with Thales of France in a bid to boost the training of helicopter pilots in Nigeria. According to the terms of the contract, Thales would also assist Caverton to set up an AW139 H full-flight simulator (FFS) training centre  within the Caverton Flight Training Academy, built at Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, Nigeria. According to the Chairman, Caverton Offshore Support Group, Mr. Aderemi Makanjuola, the training centre’s ultimate aim is to improve the overall safety of helicopter flights in the Nigerian aviation sector. “We are delighted to add Thales to our growing list of partners and we are confident in providing the best helicopter training with this Full Flight Level D Simulator,” said Makanjuola. “Safety is our priority at Caverton and we are committed to improving flight safety across our industry and the region through simulator-based training. The new training center being the first of its kind in Africa will advance safety for the dedicated men and women who fly every day,” added Makanjuola. According to him, the simulator training centre is also designed to meet the increased demand for helicopter pilot training and, in particular, to eliminate the challenges experienced by many pilots aiming to obtain initial and recurrent training. The Thales Reality H Full Flight simulator is the world’s most advanced commercial helicopter simulator, and will be used to provide realistic scenario-based flight and mission training to AW139 helicopter operators in the region as well as Caverton’s own pilots and crews. The simulator will support a large range of training needs, including type rating, recurrent training and proficiency checks for both Visual Flight Rules (VFR) and Instrument Flight Rules (IFR), including offshore missions and VIP operations to unprepared landing sites.