This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Ngozi Uwujare The Rivers State Police Command has rounded up 55 suspects in major clamp down on criminal and recovered 20 illegal arms and ammunition. Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ahmed Zaki, told Daily Sun that, “the command is not going to give chances to the criminals. We are going after the hoodlums in the hideout in constant raids of the black spots in the state. “We have prepared the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), Anti-Kidnapping Squad, Anti-Cultism Squad, DPOs and area commanders are ready with the support of the public to chase out criminals from Rivers State. “Response teams are to be deployed in flash points in the city centre to respond to calls for service and arrest offenders. We will restructure, task and strengthen our combat outfits and investigative units to ensure suspects are brought to account. “There will be aggressive and sustained raids of criminal hideouts across the state to further decimate the comfort zone of unscrupulous persons. Detectives are called upon to ensure proper investigation of complaint to the best acceptable service standard. “Massive onslaught is being packaged to contain criminals. We shall be unrelenting in our efforts to clamp down on cult groups, armed robbers and kidnappers. It has come to my notice that illegal arms are in circulation. I will put necessary machinery in place to mop up arms in the state. I have warned my officers to shun corruption. They should rather have good relationship with members of the public. “SARS operatives arrested a corporal Edonwa, attached to C41 Unit, Port-Harcourt, along with other members of his gang, specialising in snatching cars. They confessed to robbing five exotic cars, which they sold off in neighbouring state. The other suspects are Tomiye, Odih, and Kelly. “The Rapid Response Team (RRT), at Okpoko Junction, East West Road, arrested two suspects,   Ina and Okon during stop and search and recovered one original pump action rifle, one locally made long gun, two AK47 magazines, 60 rounds of AK47 ammunition, nine line cartridges and four swords. “The Police Anti-Crime Patrol, Elele, arrested one Darlington suspected armed robber. SARS operatives arrested one Legbosi in Port-Harcourt. They recovered one barrett pistol from him. “SARS operatives at Erema on patrol along Akabuka Ahiahu Road intercepted two occupants on an unregistered motorcycle. Immediately they sighted the SARS operatives, they abandoned the motorcycle and fled. “SARS operatives also arrested a fake solider from Isialangwa L.G.A,  Abia State. The suspect claimed to be a member of Army Recruitment Committee. The suspect will soon be charged to court. “The Anti-Kidnapping Squad Commander, Edward Shadrack. with detectives arrested two suspected kidnappers identified as Njijuma, Okon kidnapped one Patience of IITA Road, Onne, with her Toyota highlander with Reg. No.: ACRM 45752. She was rescued unhurt and without ransom paid. She was debriefed and released to her family for medical attention. “Two notorious kidnappers at Bori who chattered the victim’s car and on the way abducted, killed him and took the vehicle. The suspects are Bira, and Agbo. “The Anti-Cultism Unit arrested four suspected cult members. They are, Chukwuebuka, Promise, Akagbuo and Sunday. They recovered eight locally made pistols, four rounds of live cartridges, seven rounds of 9mm, three machetes and pieces of charms.