This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Dawn Agu, Abuja Dr Ibrahim Goni, Conservator General; National Park Service says the value of wildlife is incalculable, and includes conserving life both on land and below water to halt biodiversity loss, he made this statement on Tuesday, March 3rd, 2020 which marks the World Wildlife Day’. He said that the theme for the World Wildlife Day 2020 is ‘Sustaining all life on Earth’ and that the Service will always join the world in wildlife conservation. Wildlife refers to undomesticated animal species and plants that live and grow in an area without being introduced by humans. They include all mammals, birds, rainforests, grasslands in fact it encompasses all wild animal and plant species as a component of biodiversity. “These animals and plants have economic, environmental and social impacts in our lives. “Their intrinsic values contribute to the ecological, genetic, social, economic, scientific, educational, cultural, recreational and aesthetic aspects of human well-being. “We depend on the constant interplay and interlinkages between all elements of the biosphere for all our needs. This includes the air we breathe, the food we eat, the energy we use, and the materials we need for all purposes, he said. The CG added that unsustainable human activities and overexploitation of the species and natural resources are imperiling the world’s biodiversity. He equally stated that World Wildlife celebration is an opportunity to celebrate the many beautiful and varied forms of wild fauna and flora and to raise awareness of the multitude of benefits that their conservation provides to people. He said there is an urgent need to step up the fight against wildlife crime and human-induced reduction of species. “Look at the recent cruel and barbaric treatment meted to a stray manatee, an animal found in Delta State and the cannibalisation of a whale washed ashore in Ijaw kiri community water front, Brass Akpoama in 2019. “It’s illegal to hunt these animals, since they are endangered species and therefore should be protected as part of our environment. Dr Goni, assured that the service will continue to sensitise the public on the need to preserve and conserve the nation’s biodiversity. “We will continue to use any opportunity we have to educate the public on the importance of these wildlife in our environment and our well-being in general. “However, ignorance of the law is not an excuse so anyone caught violating environmental laws will be arrested and prosecuted. “They should be punished so that it would serve as a deterrent to others,” he added.