This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Priscilla Ediare, Ado Ekiti Ekiti State Governor Dr Kayode Fayemi has pledged the commitment of his administration to the sustenance of relationships with agencies of the Federal Government in the state for better service delivery. The governor who was represented by his Deputy, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, made the remarks on Wednesday while receiving the outgoing Assistant Controller General of the Nigeria Correctional Service in charge of Zone ‘F,’ comprising Oyo, Osun, Ondo and the Ekiti States, Mr Chiedu Joseph Emelue who paid him a valedictory visit. According to a statement by the Special Assistant (Media) to the Deputy Governor, Odunayo Ogunmola, Mr Emelue commended the Fayemi Administration for its support for the Ekiti Command of the Correctional Service and the cordial working relationship with its officers and men. The Zone ‘F’ Command comprises National Correctional Service commands in Oyo, Osun, Ondo and Ekiti States. Mr Emelue was joined on the visit by the Controller of Corrections (Operations), Zone ‘F’ Command, Mr Abioye Adesina; Controller of Corrections, Ekiti Command, Mr Tolu Ogunsakin and other zonal and state command officers. The governor used the forum to advocate a synergy among stakeholders in the criminal justice sector including the police, the judiciary and the correctional service to ensure speedy dispensation of justice. This, he said, would ensure decongestion of correctional centres and reform of their inmates to prepare them for reintegration into the larger society. The governor promised the institution of the state government’s continued collaboration and support as well as helping to build an Observatory Tower in their correctional custodian centre. ‘There is a need for collaboration and synergy among the stakeholders in the criminal justice system to ensure speedy dispensation of justice and this will help decongest our correctional centres,’ he stated. ‘I want to commend officers and men of the Ekiti State Command of the Nigeria Correctional Service for their diligence and we are going to look into your requests.’ The governor congratulated the retiring Assistant Controller General on the successful completion of his career saying Mr Emelue has proven to be an officer of integrity who contributed the best part of his life to the reformation of character. Earlier, Mr Emelue, in his remarks, commended the state government for the legacy projects executed in the state noting that the Fayemi Administration has written its name on the sand of time with its populist programmes. He also praised the government for the continued support the institution is enjoying over the years expressing appreciation for graciously approving land for the new state Custodian Centre Headquarters in Ado Ekiti, the state capital. Mr Emelue, however, expressed concern over the increasing number of inmates in the Ekiti correctional centre facility noting that the facility which was designed to accommodate 324 inmates now had over 600 inmates. The trend, according to him, has posed a serious danger to the correctional centre and would increase maintenance costs.