This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has cleared 16 political parties to contest the Ekiti State governorship election. Tagged ‘Final list of candidates for the 2022 Ekiti State governorship election’, the Commission in a statement by National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education Committee, Barr Festus Okoye, said the list was in compliance with the Electoral Act 2022. It reminded the political parties that under Section 32(2) of the Electoral Act 2022, any party that observes that name of its candidate is missing from the list “shall notify the Commission in writing, signed by its National Chairman and Secretary, supported with an affidavit not later than 90 days to the election.”  Breakdown of the participants, according INEC, showed that 16 political parties that will fight it out at the poll comprise 14 male candidates, and two female candidates. It warned the political parties that failure to observe Section 32(3) of the Electoral Act 2022, in notifying the Commission “shall not be ground to invalidate the election.” “On Wednesday, February 16, 2022, INEC published the personal particulars and list of candidates (Form EC9) for the Ekiti State governorship election in our State and Local Government offices as required by law. “In compliance with the Electoral Act 2022, the Commission hereby publishes the final list of candidates for the election following the close of nominations by political parties. “The Commission wishes to remind political parties that under Section 32(2) of the Electoral Act 2022, any party that observes that the name of its candidate is missing from the list “shall notify the Commission in writing, signed by its National Chairman and Secretary, supported with an affidavit not later than 90 days to the election”.  “Furthermore, the attention of parties is drawn to Section 32(3) of the Electoral Act 2022, which provides that failure to notify the Commission “shall not be ground to invalidate the election”. “The final list is published in our State and Local Government offices in Ekiti State as well as our website and social media platforms for public information as required by law. Political parties are enjoined to note the provision of the law for compliance,” the statement from the Commission read.