This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Senator Tanko Al-Makura, one of the aspirants for the chairmanship race for the All Progressives Congress (APC), has for the first time reacted to the purported endorsement of Senator Abdullahi Adamu as the consensus candidate for the national chairmanship by President Muhammadu Buhari. Speaking to newsmen at the weekend in Abuja, he said Buhari is known for his uprightness and passion for due process, adding that anything from the president must come through due process and not unnamed sources. Recall sources at the meeting President Buhari had with governors before he left Abuja to attend the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) at 50 in Nairobi, Kenya, had said APC’s governors request for him to change his mind on his preference for Adamu met a brick wall. Reminded of a report that he was daring the President, by going ahead with his campaign when he had endorsed somebody else, Al-Makura said: ‘No. The sources of information were not authentic. They were not genuine. And I know what Mr President stands for, he always stands for what is right and due process. And unless I have an authoritative source of information that is clear. I still have my doubts. I have many avenues through which I can reach Mr President and the people around him. And since those speculations did not come through those avenues, I consider them as speculation. That is why as I speak with you, my campaign is going with a different tempo, to ensure that my campaign is going far and wide to await the next line of action as directed by the party leadership.” Asked why he was optimistic that he will emerge as the candidate of choice, Al-Makura said: ‘Yes, I’m very optimistic. I am always an optimist until things prove themselves otherwise. And what has really given me hope for this optimism is the uprightness of Mr President and his passion for due process. So I believe that whatever comes from Mr President must come through a process. And I consider the process for the emergence of leadership, I believe it’s going to be transparent. I believe it’s going to be fair. And I believe it is going to conform with the articles and sections of the Constitution dealing with that.’ The former Nasarawa Governor also said it will be a disservice if as a committed member of APC if he fails to show interest in leading the party so that he’ll be able to add value to the administration of the party. ‘What I’m bringing to the table is the experience I’ve garnered over time. Particularly, my participation in the merger taking into consideration the unanimity and total submission that the different tendencies in this country have had to do to ensure that we come as one united indivisible people with one destiny is something we must sustain, is something we must promote. So that younger Nigerians coming behind will benefit from this mutual understanding to move the country forward. I’m also bringing to the table my experience with President Muhammadu Buhari because I’ve learned the tutelage of transparency, good values, and commitment to what is good for everybody.’