This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. THISDAY Front Page of March 12 welcomes us today with this schoolboy howler: “…the conversion of the enormous gas resources currently being flared to ammonia.” What is the function of ‘currently’ here in the circumstance of ‘being’? “Amidst (Amid) tears and wailing (wailing and tears), the remains of late (delete ‘late’)…was (were) laid to rest at his home town….”  Wrong: on the grounds of defection (THISDAY Back Page of the edition under review) Right: on grounds of defection “…There’II be no cover up (cover-up), gov assures” (News around the City, March 9) Who did the governor assure? “…who disclosed this, in Abuja, yesterday, said the party has (had) also nominated….” (NATIONAL NEWS, March 9) “Ayu said the party’s action is (was) in compliance with the judgment of the….” Wrong: certificate of returns  Right: certificates of return “Coronation MFB: Optimism, uncertainty besets (beset) Nigeria’s 2022 outlook” “UK, UBA, 10 others launch over N10bn to aid girls (girl) education, employment in developing countries” THE GUARDIAN of February 21 takes over the baton from NATIONAL NEWS under focus: “For close to five years, he raced through the banking sector like a bull in a china hall.” Get it right: a bull in a china shop. “Singapore jails senior civil servants over (for) corruption” “ANA postponements (sic) (postpones) February reading” “Peugeot plans to inject $7.26b on (into) research, development” “South African Airways celebrates 80 years (years’ or 80th year) anniversary” “LASU Management re-opens (reopens) the university”  “You lived well and you have gone to (preferably for) a well deserved (well-deserved) rest. Rest in perfect peace.” (Full-page advertisement) Except for graveyard peace, ‘peace’ is an absolute and does not need inflection, intensification or adumbration. So, rest in peace (R.I.P—not R.I.P.P)! Finally from the Back Page of THE GUARDIAN under review: “One has witnessed at different occasions dissenting opinions of doctors as regards prescriptions for patient’s (a patient’s) ailment.” The Guardian youth speak: on different occasions. “Heritage Bank plans listing in (on) capital market” “Pact with China conducive for peace, says Taiwan (Taiwan’s or Taiwanese) president” “Otherwise, there is no point we engage in importing that much on yearly (a yearly) basis.” “…he said though the institute has (had) developed 62 rice varieties for farmers, five most prominent varieties are (were) in circulation and are (were) doing very good (well).” “NEMA, stakeholders meets over displaced persons” You can readily identify the boyish slip-up. “With the LG polls now fixed for next week Tuesday….” Either next Tuesday or Tuesday, next week—no jumbo-mumbo! Lastly from DAILY TRUST: “Replicate your performance to (in) your constituents (constituencies)” “Security at airports: Police deploys (sic) sniffer dogs at (in) Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, 5 others” (AIT News, 4 p.m., February 20) “PIB: Senate to re-open probe” (Source: as above) My comment: already treated. From DAILY TRUST we move to THISDAY of February 18 for the next four entries: “I am not in FCT for politics, says Mbu” It categorically means you were in Rivers State for presidential wife’s politics! That is the latent power of words. “Absence of interpreter stalls trial of Portuguese woman charged for (with) drug trafficking” “Thumb (Thumbs) up for Nigerian refs in Mali” “Obasanjo : Amaechi’s k-leg (knocked leg) has been straightened”  “Failure of Oduah to handover (hand over) stalls….” The following five solecisms are from DAILY INDEPENDENT of February 18 starting from its front page: “DHQ assures of continued offensive” Who did it assure? “Battle for soul of FCMB intensifies” So the battle intensifies itself? “Harnessing potentials of local software industry in Nigeria” ‘Potential’ is uncountable, but we have ‘potentialities’, “…who had at one point or the other (or another) been to Oyo State….” “Tackling voters apathy in Nigeria” This way: voter apathy SATURDAY INDEPENDENT of March 11 disseminated all manner of juvenile mistakes right from the front page: “Fear has grip (gripped) notable politicians in Ebonyi State following findings by….” Most of the ensuing blunders were caused by sheer carelessness and loose thinking as the computer system has an in-built mechanism that detects most of the spelling errors contained herein.  “The discovery was made when the SSS arrested some kidnappers in the state alleged to be the brain (brains) behind high profile (high-profile) kidnapping in the state.” “The SSS in the state said on Friday that it has (had) arrested….” “…motorists were made to watch a bizzare (bizarre) spectacle, (needless comma) as four policemen beat a man gave (who gave) his name as…to a state of stupour (stupor).” “The policemen, who drove to the scene in a patrol van with registration number KJA 284 AX, threw caution the winds (sic) (threw caution to the winds).” “Federal University Lafia, (otiose punctuation) matriculates 380 students” Would it have matriculated traders? Just yank away the last word in the extract! “Community sends SOS to FG over harrassment” Spell-check: harassment, but embarrassment. Still on SATURDAY INDEPENDENT under focus: “…Buhari has already served the people creditable well…” This is an over-kill: use either ‘creditably’ or ‘well’. Both cannot co-function in the same environment. “Adewale Ayuba is one musician (music/musical) act who has been around for years. “ “My husband usually ask (asks) me to abort my pregnancy, woman tells court” Finally from SATURDAY INDEPENDENT, a voice of your own: “Movie directors threaten sanction on (against) actress” Next on focus is DAILY INDEPENDENT of February 10: “They buy at N159 and sell at N167, the CBN has (had) addressed last year when….” “But what the banks decided to do is (was) to even stop selling.” “Middle aged (Middle-aged) man commits suicide in Jos…Police tries (try) to uncover his identity” “IITA creates 40,000 jobs under cassava to ethanol (cassava-to-ethanol) project” THISDAY of February 6 contributed to the pool of infelicities: “Budget: APC threatening the lifewire (livewire) of Nigeria, says FG”  “Edo: Court remands killer cop (killer-cop)…”  “CBN said money is (was) missing from federation (the federation) account.”