This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Nigerian Army Troops fighting Boko Haram terrorists in the North East, have killed a total of 29 terrorists in several clearance operations while 72 innocent citizens taken hostage including women and children, were rescued. The clearance operations took place at Iza general area and Bita-Madube, Ciki-Njubul axis A statement confirming the rescue of the hostages, signed by Col Sani Usman said, “Troops of 151 Task Force Battalion, 21 Brigade have cleared remnants of Boko Haram terrorists from three villages in Iza general area, killing 25 Boko Haram terrorists and recovered some weapons. “The cleared villages were Mballeri, Shuari 1 and Shuari 2. In addition, the troops also rescued 18 persons held captive by the terrorists. They comprised of 2 men, 7 women and 9 children. The rescued persons have been moved to the Brigade’s headquarters for further screening and care. “Unfortunately, one Civilian JTF accompanying the troops fell off a vehicle and sustained some injuries. He has however since been evacuated to the unit’s Regimental Aid Post for medical treatment and he is in stable condition. Continuing Usman said, “Troops of 114 Task Force Battalion, 28 Task Force Brigade, in conjunction with some vigilantes in their area of operation, have carried out clearance operation of reported remnants of Boko Haram terrorists along Bita-Madube Ciki-Njubul axis. “During the advance, 2 soldiers unfortunately stepped on a buried Improvised Explosive Device (IED) that seriously injured one of the soldiers. “Nevertheless, the troops continued the advance and had contact with the terrorists and cleared them out of Madube Cikin, killing 4 insurgents, destroying 2 vehicles and 2 motorcycles belonging to the terrorists. “The troops also recovered 2 cylinders, 1 AK-47 rifle, 3 boxes of 7.62mm (Special) ammunition, 2 bicycles and bags of grains. “The troops also rescued 54 persons held hostage by the Boko Haram terrorists. “The released hostages are being screened while the wounded soldiers have since been evacuated for proper medical care.   (Source: VANGUARD)