This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Tony Osauzo (Benin) and Paul Osuyi (Asaba)   The management of the University of Benin has ordered that the institution’s flag be flown at half-mast in honour of its late former vice chancellor, Prof Grace Alele-Williams, who died on Friday at the age of 89 years. The Vice-Chancellor, University of Benin (UNIBEN), Professor Lilian Salami, while mourning the death of Prof. Alele-Williams on behalf of the governing council, management, staff, alumni and students of the university, described the late former and first female vice-chancellor as an iconic giant who broke the glass ceiling for other women to blossom. Salami, who spoke with Orode Doherty, the daughter of Alele-Williams, to commiserate with the family, said she was consoled that the late professor of Mathematics was being celebrated, rather than mourned. While also expressing grief, Edo State governor Godwin Obaseki, in a statement, described late Prof Alele-Williams as an amazon, who troded where others dreaded, hailing her unmatched devotion to national development. “It is with a heavy heart that I received the sad news of the passing of renowned academic and administrator, Prof. Grace Alele-Williams,” Obaseki said. The governor said Prof Alele-Williams was a thorough-bred academician who throughout her life, left an indelible mark of dutiful service, hard work, diligence and determination. “As the first female Nigerian to earn a doctorate degree in Mathematics, Prof. Alele-Williams was a woman of many firsts. She shattered the glass ceiling and didn’t look back thereafter. “When she became the vice chancellor of the University of Benin (UNIBEN), she shone brightly as a fearless administrator and restored sanity to the higher institution during a period of social upheaval. “Prof Alele-Williams will be remembered for her insight, dedication to duty and courage as well as her commitment to breaking barriers limiting advancement of women in uncharted territories,” Obaseki said.