This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Priscilla Ediare, Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Government has advocated a stronger partnership with the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) for assistance to disaster victims in the state. Deputy Governor Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi disclosed this on Wednesday when he received in the audience the new NEMA Head of Operations for Ekiti, Ondo and Osun States, Mr Kadri Olanrewaju, who was on a familiarisation visit. A statement by the Special Assistant (Media) to the Deputy Governor, Odunayo Ogunmola, explained that the new NEMA chief was accompanied on the visit by the Chairman of Ekiti State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Captain Sunday Adebomi (retd) and other officials of the two agencies. Otunba Egbeyemi expressed delight in welcoming Mr Olanrewaju to the state noting that the state government was looking forward to a more robust partnership with NEMA to give succour to victims of natural and man-made disasters in the state. The deputy governor explained that SEMA, an agency under the supervision of his office, has been doing its best in giving assistance to victims of disasters within the available resources for over three years of the Dr Kayode Fayemi administration. While commending NEMA for its operations in the state, Otunba Egbeyemi, however, used the forum to call for more assistance to disaster victims in the state to give them succour and help them live normal lives. “We are ready to cooperate with you, in fact, we are seeking a stronger and more vibrant partnership with your agency (NEMA) because you have been doing a great job in Ekiti State,” he stated. “You have been providing support for distressed in this state and we need more of it. I recall that relief materials were given to disaster victims last year but I want to say that we need more to assist our people who suffered the pangs of these disasters. “The SEMA Chairman and his team have been equally doing their job very well but we want you to help us know the areas you want us to come in and assist you in your operations.” Speaking earlier, the NEMA boss, Mr Olanrewaju, said a smooth relationship with the state government was very key in achieving the aims and objectives of the agency in making life easier for victims of disasters. Mr Olanrewaju disclosed that NEMA recently did an assessment of victims and property damaged by rainstorms recently in Ayegbaju Ekiti, Orin Ekiti and Ikere Ekiti with the official report already forwarded to the agency’s national headquarters in Abuja. “We want the state government to partner with NEMA for us to have a smooth relationship in fulfilling our mandate and seamless operations,” he said. “We are here to bring succour to the distressed and we need the assistance of the state government to make this possible.”