This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Nasarawa House of Assembly has approved Governor Umaru Tanko Almakura’s request to sell state’s properties in Lagos, Jos and Kaduna states, due to dilapidation and deteriorating condition of the assets. Speaker Ibrahim Balarabe Abdullahi, who announced the approval at yesterday’s plenary, said proceeds from the sale would be ploughed back to complete the state’s multi-purpose property at the Central Business District in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, as well as other projects that have direct bearing on the lives of the people of the state.  Properties to be sold in Kaduna include No. 23, Katuru Road, No. 12, Lamido Road among others, while properties in Jos include N0.31 Ibrahim Taiwo Road, No. 3, Rest House Road among others, and Lagos properties are former Plateau Liason Office, Blocks A  and B, plot 1234 and No 31, Oladipo street, Apapa GRA,Lagos. Said Abdullahi: “We are passing a resolution approving the request of his Excellency, governor Tanko Almakura, to dispose government properties in Lagos, Kaduna and Jos, owing to the following reasons. “Dilapidation and deteriorating conditions of the buildings, high cost of maintenance of the buildings and payment of municipal taxes, squatters challenge in all the structures and collection of illegal rent by unscrupulous officers with such monies not coming to the state. “Lagos, Kaduna and Jos no longer serve as federal, regional and state capitals, as the case may be, and (there is) no need for any strong presence in these cities and that is more economical and administratively convenient to maintain a minimal presence in Kaduna and a more robust presence in Abuja.  “Sale of the assets is now liquidated. Nasarawa Investment  and Property Development Company (NIPDC) Limited, is to offset its liabilities, while the balance, if any, is ploughed back to government to pursue its developmental agenda. The proposed assets to be sold within that state are Nasarawa Investment Conference, Azuba land, Nasara Spring Water Nig. (NASWAN) Ltd, Lafia, Kuchikau site and Services Scheme, 7.02 land opposite Karu International Market,” the speaker said.