This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From George Onyejiuwa, Owerri Imo State Governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha has described an alleged zoning of the Vice President position to the South East by the Peoples Democratic Party in 2019 as a “Greek gift.” This was just as the governor said zoning was mere deceit as the former ruling party has no chance of winning the presidential election in 2019. “For 16 years the PDP was in power, the party never had any reason to remember that the South-East, as a major bloc in the country, could occupy the vice-president position or could hold any of the sensitive positions in the country. Are they just waking up from their slumber after being out of power? “The PDP never allowed the South-East to have the president, the Vice-President, the Senate President, the speaker of House of Representatives positions and so on. The South-East totally lost out in the PDP government.” Continuing, he said, “even in terms of projects, the South-East had a very rough experience in the PDP government. All the federal roads in the zone were all death traps until the party was voted out of power. The second Niger Bridge became an endless pit for the PDP. Some oil locations belonging to some states in the zone were taken away and given to other states outside the zone. It was a hopeless situation for the zone in PDP.” He pointed out that the Vice President position being dangled before South East was out of desperation to regain power in 2019. “The South-East will get its due from the APC administration because the party believes in fair play, justice and equity. The PDP toyed with the fate of the South-East, which the APC cannot do. And, the good signs are everywhere; the South-East will be better off in the APC government. The level of greed in the PDP cannot be found in APC. The APC won’t wait until it is out of power before remembering the South-East zone or any other zone. That cannot be our portion,” he said.