This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Charity Nwakaudu, Abuja Minister of Mines and Steel Development Olamilekan Adegbite has debunked media reports suggesting that Ajaokuta Steel Company was handed over to a British firm, stating that ‘at no time did he say that the federal government was handing over Ajaokuta to a British firm for rehabilitation.’ The minister, in a statement signed by Special Adviser on Media, Ayodeji Adeyemi, said it is important to ‘correct false narratives by some media outlets on Ajaokuta Steel plant and the purported hand over of the plant to a British firm Adequate explained that a local Nigerian firm with a British partner had expressed interest in carrying out the technical audit for free with no preconditions. He further explained that the federal government had been in discussion with a Russian firm Messrs TPE (nominated by the Russian government) towards conducting the technical audit. The war between Ukraine and Russia has caused a setback to the proposed plan. Adegbite noted that it was difficult to move forward with the Russian firm due to international sanctions placed on Russia, which have also impacted Russian firms and businesses. ‘Meanwhile, a local company in partnership with a British company has offered to execute the technical audit at no cost to Nigeria and with no preconditions. This was what I said at the media parley at the statehouse and not that Ajaokuta would be handed over to a British company for rehabilitation,’ the minister clarified. Adegbite explained that when the technical audit is completed, the result would be shared with all interested investors and potential partners interested in Ajaokuta Steel Plant resuscitation, which they would use to enter their bids. ‘To ensure that the entire process is transparent, a firm was appointed in 2018 as Transaction Advisor. This firm has been revalidated by the BPP (Bureau of Public Procurement) and will guide and ensure a transparent due process in the selection of the eventual firm for Ajaokuta Steel restoration. The T.A will carry out all financial, environmental and technical due process to establish the successful firm and the mode of engagement. The various bids would then be ranked by the transaction advisor according to merits,’ he said He noted that the outcome of the transaction advisor’s work would be taken to the Federal Executive Council for a robust discussion and eventual decision.