This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Fred Itua, Abuja  The Senate, yesterday, passed a bill seeking to amend the Terrorism (Prevention) Act 2013, and to prohibit the payment of ransom to kidnappers in the country.     If signed into law, it may only be applicable in the Federal Capital Territory as Houses of Assembly are also empowered to pass such laws. The passage of the bill followed the consideration of a report by its Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters. The bill was laid by the committee’s Chairman, Opeyemi Bamidele, for consideration. In the memoranda presented to the committee, several issues relating to terrorism and terrorism financing in line with global best practices were raised.  Bamidele, in his presentation, said the bill sought to outlaw the payment of ransom to abductors, kidnappers and terrorists for release of any person who has been wrongfully confined, imprisoned or kidnapped.  “The overall import of this bill is to discourage the rising spate of kidnappings and abductions for ransom In Nigeria, which is fast spreading across the country,” he said. The lawmaker assured that the amendment would set standards and regulatory system intended to prevent terrorist groups from laundering money through the banking system and other financial networks. “Having policies in place to combat financing of terrorism will surely reduce or eliminate privacy and anonymity in financial and other sundry transactions as it relates to the subject in our society.”  Bamidele said there was  need to comprehensively review the Terrorism Prevention Act arose from the unfavourable ratings of Financial Act Task Force (FATF) recommendations of Nigeria’s Mutual Evaluation Report and consequent placement of Nigeria in FATF’S International Cooperation and Review Group Process with its impending sanctions on Nigeria’s economy. He said the National Task Force on improving Nigeria’s Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) regime in Nigeria, proposed improvement on the Act in order to address the deficiencies noted in its provisions so as to align with the required standard as obtainable in other jurisdictions. He emphasised that the proposed repeal and enactment bill was geared towards improving the effectiveness of countermeasures against terrorism, terrorism financing and proliferation financing. The lawmaker said the repeal was aimed at providing adequate framework for improved international collaboration, inter-agency cooperation and freezing of terrorist funds/assets.  “The passage of this Bill will save Nigeria from being included among countries in the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) Grey List with its attendant negative consequences, which might ultimately result to international sanctions that would affect the image of the country in the comity of nations.” Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, in his remarks after the bill was passed, said: “It is our belief here in the Senate, that this bill, by the time it is signed into law by Mr. President, will enhance the efforts of this government in the fight against terrorism, kidnapping, and other associated and related vices. This is one piece of legislation that can turn around not only the security situation in Nigeria, but even the economic fortunes of our country. “We have done so much as a government, in terms of infrastructural development across all parts of this country, but because security situation is not the kind of situation that we all want, this tends to overshadow all the tremendous and massive developments in our country.  I believe that the Executive will waste no time in signing this bill into law, and it is our hope that this additional piece of legislation will achieve the purpose for which it has been worked upon by the Senate, and, indeed, the National Assembly and, for the reason for which it would also be signed by Mr. President.”  Lawan, however, said the the fight against insecurity, whether  kidnapping or terrorism, was not the sole role of a government. “The contribution and support by citizens is essential, because our security agencies need vital and critical information against terrorism and other things that make life difficult for us.”