This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. By Billy Graham Abel, Yola Adamawa State Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri has formally declared his intention to run for a second term as governor in the 2023 general elections. According to the governor, he is running for reelection because a majority of Adamawans have endorsed his leadership and have expressed satisfaction with the progress the state is enjoying under the PDP. He said the achievements of the party in the last three years speak volumes of the work the PDP led government is implementing in the state and that he has begun to build a great society where nothing is left untouched and no one is left behind. Governor Fintiri made the remarks on Monday at the official swearing-in ceremony of the local government chairpersons and councillors in Yola, the Adamawa State capital. Governor Fintiri described the PDP led government in Adamawa as people-driven and that his government is committed to doing more on making Adamawa and its people a great state. ‘For us in Adamawa State, 2023 is not a question of what we will do, it is a matter of what we have done with the mandate freely given in 2019,’ the governor stated. ‘In the last three years, we have provided the right answers to all the questions and can be trusted to seek a new mandate for yet another electoral cycle.’ Speaking on his intentions to run for the governor of Adamawa state in 2023, he said: ‘It is no longer news that the Nomination Form for Adamawa Gubernatorial race of our party has been picked for me. ‘Because we have done so much and there is more to be done to better a lot of our people and our dear State; because we have built a trusting relationship with the electorates, majority of whom are the masses where our support (both in votes and prayers) is derived; because our party needs to continue on the path of victory; after very wide consultation within our great Party and outside it, within the State and outside it, with my family, friends, associates and leaders, I wish to formally inform you that I have accepted to offer myself yet again, to seek for the endorsement of our Great Party, the PDP, to carry its flag in the 2023 governorship race of Adamawa State. ‘I believe you can trust me again as you have done before. There is indeed nothing about me that either you or the entire citizens of Adamawa State do not know. ‘And there is nothing on the shelf of your developmental needs that I do not know. I have started the crusade for reinventing a new Adamawa where no one is left behind and nothing is left untouched. ‘We have done so much in physical infrastructure and moving forward, stomach infrastructure will take precedence. I seek your support to continue the good work we have started in the state,’ he stated. Speaking on the just concluded local governments elections in the state, Governor Fintiri described the outcome of the local government elections in the state as a glaring referendum on the nationwide multiple failures of the APC and how Nigerians are eager to throw the APC out of power. He said that the absolute choice of PDP by the people in the 21 local governments and in the 226 councillorship seats in the state is a strong statement that underscores the total rejection of the APC and evidence that the PDP is doing something right and that the opposition party has been extinguished in Adamawa state. ‘I want to equally acknowledge the Adamawa State Independent Electoral Commission (ADSIEC) for midwifing a credible election across the 21 Local Government Councils of the state,’ he said. ‘Once again, we have demonstrated our commitment to an entrenched democratic culture that is rooted in the sanctity of election, especially at the grassroots level. Back to back, we have provided the needed atmosphere and resources to conduct hitch-free elections in our Local Government Councils twice in less than three years of our existence as a government. This is a feat our predecessors made so huge an impossible task. ‘This election has produced triple outcomes, first, it is a referendum on the failures of the APC policies and how agitated our people are to vote out the party from the bottom to the top; ‘Secondly, as an administration, it has bestowed on us an opportunity for self-evaluation and strengthened our belief that we are doing something right in Adamawa State and the generality of the citizens, within and outside are happy with us, and thirdly, it has reaffirmed my often-echoed position that there is no opposition in Adamawa State. ‘For if there were any, we would have seen them and their performance in the Saturday polls. ‘For the exercise of their right of franchise, I thank the good people of Adamawa State for continuously believing in us and voting for the PDP overwhelmingly. ‘We are not going into the 2023 campaigns with empty promises. By now the last three years is enough testimony that our words have always been our bond.’ The Adamawa state governor then used the occasion to address the public about the 2023 general elections and drum support for former vice president Atiku Abubakar. He said, “Like in Adamawa State, at the national level, now more than ever before, the mood of the nation is clear, Nigerians have realized their mistakes and are ready to correct them with the 2023 election. ‘The APC led Government has failed at all levels and the only way to ensure that the failure is not elevated to a norm is to vote the APC out and Vote the PDP in. ‘For the PDP, it is time to Rescue Nigeria. Nigerians will not forgive us if we refuse to prosecute this rescue mission with all the arsenals at our disposal. ‘The PDP is loaded with Presidential hopefuls, all of them qualified to rule Nigeria. All of them are my good friends and brothers, but I am a practical politician who is realistic about possibilities. ‘What the PDP needs at the moment is to win elections for Nigerians. ‘If we must win, we need to field a candidate whose candidature would not be hard to sell in every nook of the country, that candidate is Atiku Abubakar. ‘Coincidentally, the Waziri is our own special gift to Nigeria. ‘I lead in this pride and call on all the citizens of Adamawa State at home and away to support the aspiration of Atiku Abubakar for President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. ‘I am fully committed to this and Adamawa State is equally committed to this noble course and sacrifice to nation-building. ‘We must go all out to mobilize our friends and associates outside the State for this rescue mission. ‘This is not Waziri’s project, it is an Adamawa project, it is a Rescue Nigeria Project.’