Zylus Group International, one of the biggest real estate firms in Nigeria is empowering youths and providing employment for them, in order to address the challenges of unemployment in the country. According to Trading Economics, there is a shift in the employment rate of Nigeria as it decreased to 77.3 per cent in the third quarter of 2018 from 76.9 per cent in the second quarter of 2018. For Nigerian youths, the situation appears to be tinged with bleakness as the unemployment rate in that demography skyrocketed to nearly 20 per cent in 2019, as opposed to 9.84 per cent six years ago. In a bid to find lasting solutions to this enigma, experts recommend entrepreneurship as the foundation of any developed nation. The Registrar, Institute of Credit Administration of Nigeria (ICA), Professor Chris Onalo, stated that the government in conjunction with private companies must increasingly work to improve the ease of doing business by developing and implementing more pro-market policies, and making the business environment more attractive to investors. This also includes startups. With frequent increase in the unemployment rate, companies are saddled with the responsibilities of not just meeting the need of people but providing a platform for each of them to flourish. Recognising these variables, Zylus Group International through its platform proffer solutions that reduced over 50,000 youths from the growing list of unemployment and poverty. The company achieved this through a sellable solution that serves as a source of revenue for many Nigerians and a platform for startups to survive. In a bid to equip the youth for starting, growing and sustaining businesses, the company on monthly basis organises business meeting to train both youths and adults who have keen interest in learning techniques, selling principles, strategies needed for business growth. These trainings are facilitated by life coaches and professional business analysts. Speaking at the launch of Lekki Pride, one of Zylus’ new estates located at Abraham Adesanya, Lekki-Epe expressway, Mr. Effiong Bassey enjoined other companies to follow the step of Zylus Group by engaging the youths and ensuring their development through training and job creation. The Group Managing Director of Zylus Group International, Mr. Oluwatosin Olatujoye posited that creating jobs and a platform for the youth to flourish and be financially independent is one of the vision of the company as it will prevent the youth from acting or engaging in drug addiction, rape etc “I believe that Creating job opportunities for the youths will lead to the prevention of drug abuse, addiction, rape, sexual harassment, sexual assault, robbery, depression and a host of many.” The GMD urged other well-meaning Nigerians to tap into these opportunities by subscribing to some of these solutions on the company’s website. Olatujoye congratulated the winners at the Chase The Lion Challenge organised by the company, stat Zylus Group International through her investment platform has served as the gateway to financial prosperity by providing not just a product sellable but a high return on investment within a working 72 hours without any breach of agreement. The platform which has made many Youths a millionaire also enshrined external realtors high commission that is not given in any other real estate in the country.