This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  By Maduka Nweke, manweke@gmail.com  President Muhammadu Buhari, has been commended by the International Facility Management Association (IFMA) Nigeria Chapter, for assenting to Executive Order 11 on National Public Buildings Maintenance Policy at the Council Chambers of the State House. Making the commendation, on Wednesday, April 6, 2022, President of IFMA, Mr. Segun Adebayo, observed that the Executive Order was long overdue considering that the professional management and maintenance of the Federal assets can now be  assured and guaranteed. According to the President, “as we earnestly look forward to the implementation of the provisions of the new order, through the setting up of maintenance department in MDAs, our Association is committed to collaborating with Federal Government through relevant Ministry to provide required capacity building and knowledge development” “As an association, we have been advocating the integration of sustainable practices into the built environment and this has started yielding the desired results.”  We would also want to appreciate the Honorable Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN for this feat because his efforts in the ministry have yielded phenomenal results and it would positively impacts the various projects that this administration has embarked upon.” The Executive Order states that the Federal Government of Nigeria is committed to establishing a sustained maintenance programme to optimize the enormous investment in public infrastructure. The Government is determined to provide sustainable employment, job opportunities for large, small, and medium-sized businesses, artisans, and persons with vocational skills. Equally, the public assets would be maintained at a minimal cost. The Department of Federal Public Assets Maintenance will oversee the coordination, implementation, management, and maintenance of federal public assets, facilities, and premises across Nigeria. The agency will conduct maintenance needs assessment, development of maintenance plan, and the necessary procurement. The agency will monitor the outsourced facility management services of all public buildings and likewise, establish a comprehensive database of all public buildings and facilities. Public buildings will also be modified to accommodate the special needs of persons living with disabilities while ensuring that all buildings would be able to operate at optimal capacity. IFMA Nigeria is set to celebrate 25 years of impacting the built environment in Nigeria. The Association has always strategically aligned with other institutions in the areas of capacity building; research and development; mentorship and partnership. The current council has engaged both the private and public sector stakeholders to play up the relevance of the profession in the built environment in a complementary way.