This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Molly Kilete, Abuja A Super Mushak aircraft belonging to the Nigerian Air Force(NAF),  has crashed in Kaduna State, killing the two pilots on board the aircraft, Daily Sun, has gathered. The Super Mushak aircraft manufactured in Pakistan, was said to be on a training flying as part of activities lined up to mark the Nigerian Air Force day slated for May, 14, when it crashed Tuesday afternoon. Already the bodies of the two pilots said to be in the ranks of Flight Lieutenants, an equivalent of a Captain in the Nigerian Army, have been recovered and deposited in NAF Hospital, Kaduna, while the authorities are making contacts with their families to break the sad news. The NAF, is yet to issue a statement on the crash. A message sent to the NAF director Public Relations and Information Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet, on the crash was not responded to at the time of filing this report. A source who does not want to be mentioned in print told Daily Sun that a statement would be issued as soon as the NAF authorities contact the families. For now  the source also said that the identities of the deceased officers are still kept secret and would be made public after due consultations with the families. The incident of the crash has thrown the entire NAF family into a mourning mood, which may result to a low key 2022 NAF day celebrations. Daily Sun, gathered that although the venue for the celebrations has not been fixed, the NAF, authorities have made adequate plans to showcase the doggedness and air capabilities of the service during the 2022 NAF day celebrations as a way of assuring Nigerians of their determination to secure the country from any invasion from the enemy. The crash Tuesday, brings to three the total number of NAF, aircraft crashed in 2021 alone namely the Beechcraft KingAir350i which killed all seven officers on board in Abuja on March 21, 2021; the Alpha Jet which crashed while supporting troops in the North-East on April 3, 2021, and the Beechcraft 350 conveying former Chief of Army Staff, LieutenantGeneral Ibrahim Attahiru and ten other officers on board the aircraft at the Kaduna Airport. The NAF has suffered a total of eleven crashes Between August 29, 2015, and 2021, killing no fewer than 33 officers.