This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. By Ayo Alonge ayhalliday@yahoo.com WHAT started as “just a passion” suddenly became a multi-million naira venture and Atinuke Ogunniyi, an accomplished caterer, can boldly recount her success story while emphasizing, without mincing words, that catering business is very profitable. How long have you been into catering? I have been into catering for a couple of years, because I like cooking and I have been making my money from it. How did it all begin for you? Yes, I developed the passion for it. When I was in school, my sister used to ask people who were organizing parties if I could make a tray of salad for them and I also had a friend who was good at that. I just told myself that it would be nice if I could turn my passion into a moneymaking venture. How long have you been a caterer? For about six years.  What difficulties have you faced, these past six years? The major challenge is convincing people to believe in you. Maybe because your client hadn’t been to your event before, but when they now have a feel of what you can do, they’re amazed. In the end, you will even be surprised to see that the persons would call you up. Basically, it is to break-even and make them believe in what you are doing. Even if you break-even, they may still be dissatisfied if they invite you to their event and you mess up, because food is the major item for an event. Can you recall any embarrassing moment in the course of working for people? The major one was when I had an event that was slated for a certain day. A week to the event, I discovered that my account had been frozen. All my money for the event was tied down and that was a BVN issue. I had to start trying all I could because it was a big event. I was to cater for about 1,500 people.…. Could you tell us about the stages of growth you have passed through since you became a professional caterer? I started catering professionally six years ago but I would say I started about nine years ago. I was just looking for a way of earning a living and doing a job. During a Christmas season, my friend and I walked into banks to convince them that we could help them with hampers. A certain bank suggested that we do catering for them instead and that was the first stage. I took up the job and started cooking for them everyday. I was just catching fun doing it. Despite being a graduate, I was not ashamed to serve graduates like me. Soon, we went into family parties and gradually, the big deals started coming in. How much was your start-up capital? Let me say that was N5, 000. That was in 2016.  What is the net worth of the enterprise right now? It is now a multi-million-naira business. One thing you need to know is that the business entails buying a lot of equipment and that is the big deal about it. The cost of rentals gulps a lot of money but I have been able to equip myself and the business is growing rapidly. Aside referrals, how else do you source clients? Basically, I get clients through referrals. I have also done a couple of advertorials but referrals work better. I do mostly online advertorials. Which would you say is the biggest contract you have ever won? It was a wedding and it was very competitive. They didn’t even believe in me initially and I had to do it with a friend. It was about 2,000 guests and at the end of the day, the food was still surplus. Our fear was not even the quality but the quantity. How much did you make from that? I won’t like to disclose that but it was a very good deal. Is any of your children working with you? My children are still very young. Would you like any of them to  take over the business when they’re older? Yes, I will, because I believe everyone should know how to cook. You just experiment and with time, you get better. Why do people need to know about cooking? Most people just  employ contract cooks to cook for them. I feel you should always put your personal touches. I like to give the exact value of what I will cook at home. Don’t believe you can do it alone. You have to experiment with delicacies of other tribes too. I should be able to deliver if someone tells me he wants a native soup. I shouldn’t mess up the whole job because of one meal. What are the fundamentals of starting up? Don’t be carried away looking at the money alone. Be busy working to do it well. Even when you start up, ensure you equip yourself and get additional training. Impress people and don’t even look at the profit you make. Sometimes, you may be making a huge profit; just put it back into the business and also ensure you protect your integrity. You don’t get a job from a client and half of their meat is in your fridge. Has there ever been a time you recorded a major loss? That was the time I needed to rent virtually everything I required and I still had to bring someone in. I also got a lot of service boys who needed to be motivated very well so they could be loyal. I once heard of a party where the service boys got angry, removed their clothes and messed up the event. Yes, I have had some losses in business. How many people have you been able to employ? Two people have been on permanent employment with me and for the service boys and drivers; we interchange them just to keep them on their toes so they don’t   think they are indispensable. In all, I will say I have employed about 40-50 people. How profitable is catering business? It’s very profitable, especially if you know your game. A lot of people would say it’s not profitable but that is not true. The business may not be profitable at the beginning, because you have to buy a lot of equipment and keep upgrading as new ones hit the mart. The issue is you have to keep investing back into it. What would you say sustains you as an entrepreneur, considering how competitive it can be? It is originality. I cook like I am cooking for my home. I cook with personal touch and integrity. You shouldn’t get a job for 1,000 people and cook for just 600 people. How do you intend growing your business in no distant time? I want to be one of the top five brands in this country and be on the multinational level, outside the continent; not just within Nigeria and Africa. In what way is the economic meltdown affecting you? There is a biblical saying that, “when men are cast down, then I shall say that there is a lifting for me.” It has been wonderful, although it is affecting cost because you may not be making so much at the moment. But as a long-term strategy, I am cutting cost and improving quality. Are clients ready to pay extra? Yes, they are being flexible, although everybody still wants to cut cost. What are your regrets? I will say my regret is not starting earlier. It took me a long while before I started fully, even after the catering job I took up at a bank. I wish I started earlier and maybe, I would have been a bigger brand by now.