This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja Voters from Biu, Bayo, Kwaya, Kusar and Shani Federal Constituency of Borno State have purchased the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Assembly nomination form for the chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Appropriations, Muktar Betara Aliyu. The voters, who raised a total sum of N110 million to support Aliyu, said after paying N10 million for the nomination form the balance of N100 million is being deployed for other campaign activities in the federal constituency. The leader of the Borno communities, and former deputy governor of the state, Alhaji Adamu Yuguda, who obtained the form at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja, said the lawmaker has impacted positively on his constituency since his election into the parliament in 2007. ‘I am one of the delegates that came to pick form for our own representative member, Hon Muktar Betara Aliyu, who is in the holy land. As a community we are here to pick the form for him, so we are a delegation of millions of people. ‘We want him back because of his history and his antecedence. He has done a lot and our people of course donated from N20 to N10 million contributed money. He is not even aware that we are here today. We came here to pick the form on his behalf and so this is just for picking the form, the grand finale for the presentation to him will be done in the local government. ‘He has done a lot. If I begin to point them out I won’t finish till tomorrow,’ Yuguda stated. The former deputy governor added “as we speak he has no opposition up till now. There is nobody picking the form apart from him. And so he’s just going to be at ease. If it’s tomorrow that is going to be the election, so be it.” Similarly, media consultant to Hon Betara Aliyu Campaign Organisation, Hajia Aisha Ibrahim described the lawmaker as a worthy representative, who puts the people first. According to her, ‘most of the empowerment programmes he has carried out in his constituency so far have been that of the women and the youth and I cannot begin to recount them now. In fact, recently he did it in all the headquarters of his constituency. ‘One of the things he is planning is to build an empowerment centre, where women will get trained in different skills. The support from the group is massive,’ she said.