This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja There are strong indications that fresh crisis may engulf the All Progressives Congress (APC) over the rescheduling of the resumption in the commencement of sale of the party’s expression of interest and nomination forms earlier slated to commence on Saturday.  Sources close to the party’s national secretariat disclosed that the shifting has become necessary due to the inability of the printer to deliver as promised, adding that the forms may now go on sale in a yet-to-be fixed date next week. According the source, another uncertainty threatening the hitherto fragile peace of the party is the resolve by the National Working Committee (NWC) to reorganise the national secretariat and the recent order to the directors to proceed on a compulsory leave. The source disclosed that also affected by the directives include the head of the legal department of the party, just as he hinged the change in the date on the inability of the contractor handling the painting of the forms to deliver as scheduled. “As at close of work on Friday, the Directorate of Organisation of the party was yet to take delivery of the forms. Again, the party is yet to fine-tune the guidelines for the sales of forms and the primaries to be conducted between May 18 to culminate in the presidential primary billed to hold between May 30 to June 1, 2022. “So, the sale of forms earlier scheduled to commence on Saturday has been postponed. No date has been fixed for the exercise. The NWC will determine the new date on Monday. “The postponement became necessary following the inability of the contractor to deliver the forms. As we talk now, the printer is yet to deliver the forms. We hope the exercise will commence next week as the contractor is expected to deliver by this weekend,” the source explained. Confirming the order issued to the directors, the source claimed that; “six directors of the party have been asked to proceed on compulsory leave with immediate effect. “Also affected by the directive is the head of the legal department. A letter dated 21st of April, 2022, signed by the National Secretary, Otunba Iyiola Omisore, ordered all the directors to go on leave and hand over their departments to the most senior person. “The NWC’s decision to send the directors on leave was informed by the recommendation of the Transition Committee set up by Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led NWC. “In fact, the directive was in furtherance of the move by the NWC’s plan to reorganise the National Secretariat of the party,” the source explained.