This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Abel Leonard, Lafia The Nasrawa State Police Command has disclosed the arrest of 21 suspects for allegedly participating in the lynching to death of a staff of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) personnel, Paul Okon Anwana in Karu LGA of the state. The commissioner disclosed this while parading the suspects on Thursday at the police state headquarters in Shandam Road, Lafia, saying the suspects who were said to be commercial motorcyclists attacked the NDLEA staff using stones, metals, and other hard objects on him which caused his death. The CP disclosed further that the suspects were about to set the victim’s residence ablaze when they were apprehended. “Upon receipt of the information, the Divisional Police officer New Karu Division, Anti-cultism unit and Crack team led by the Assistant Commissioner of Police in charge of operations swiftly mobilised to the scene where the victim was found in the pool of his blood; he was rushed to the Hospital by the Police where the Doctor confirmed him dead. “Reacting to the ugly development, a manhunt for the perpetrators of the act was launched. Consequently, via painstaking investigation, twenty-one suspects who actively participated in the lynching of the victim to death all males were arrested; stones, metals, and other hard objects used in the commission of the offence were recovered as exhibits,” he said. He said the case has been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Lafia and the investigation is still ongoing. The police Commissioner, therefore assured residents of the Command’s commitment to securing the lives and property of every law-abiding citizen, calling on them to provide useful information that will lead to the arrest of criminals in the state. He warned all criminal elements in the State who may be nursing agendas that are inimical to the peace and security of the State, to desist from such as those arrested will be made to face the full wrath of the law.