This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha The Nigerian Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Nigeria to the Republic of Burundi, Dr. Elijah Onyeagba has announced that the two countries have signed, sealed and exchanged Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka, Nigeria and the University of Burundi for technical cooperation in academics exchange and research. Dr. Onyeagba said the MoU was in furtherance of maximizing the Joint Commission’s potentials of education co-operation between the two nations, saying that Nigerian Embassy in Bujumbura invited the Vice Chancellor of UNIZIK, Prof Charles Okechukwu Esimone to Bujumbura for a Technical Session with the relevant key players in the educational sectors and the University of Burundi, Vice chancellor, Prof Sanctus Niragira to explore potential cooperation opportunities in student/Lecturer exchange programs, capacity building, research and grant collaborationin the educational sector. The Technical Assisitant on Media Services to the Nigeria Ambassador Republic of Burundi Mr Chinedu Joseph Umeh an Engineer in a statement said that the Nigerian diplomat within 100 days in office immediately swung into action with many diplomatic blue prints, culminating in the hallmark ‘’Nigeria-Burundi Joint Commission’’ in July 30th 2021. Onyeagba promised that he would use his wealth of experience from corporate life to advance the Diplomatic Charter of President Muhammadu Buhari in his quest to have an economically prosperous and peaceful African nation. “We most joyfully announce to you that the two citadels of learning will now begin exchange programs for students and lecturers in relevant departments and faculties. This is another important milestone in Nigeria -Burundi Diplomatic relations” said the Ambassador. “The Burundi Joint Commission which took effect six months after its signing have seen massive impact on very many notable economic fronts. In education, the Nigerian Embassy Bujumbura had on 20th January 2022, received Prof Stephen Inegbe and Dr. Bunmi Ogunyemi – lecturers with the University of Uyo who are on exchange program with the University of Burundi’s Faculty of English and Literary Studies teaching English and Literature. “Also in line with the Joint Commission’s vision, the Nigerian Mission in Burundi recently played host to a cross-section of Nigerian professionals on a study tour of the Republic of Burundi from the National Institute of Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru. “The delegation which comprised of top military officers, paramilitary officers, senior civil servants, select captains of industry on study tour from NIPSS, brainstormed about their experience across their academic lines at the Institute and visited the office of the Prime Minister, the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Interior, Public Security, Budget & Planning and Health. “They also visited Civil Society Organizations, United Nations Office, Burundi’s Investment and Promotion Council, the Central Bank of Burundi, Revenue Agency and other members of the private sector. “With the signing of this latest MOU between Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka, Nigeria and the University of Burundi, the Nigeria Head of Mission in Burundi promises a more rewarding future, as he seeks to explore other avenues to maximize the Commission’s value. “The Nigerian Embassy in Bujumbura is excited as we have not only signed but have begun the implementation of the executed bilateral agreement. We will continue to explore other provisions within this bilateral agreement and keep working on others so as to deepen the relationship between Nigeria and Burundi” he stated.