This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Judex Okoro, Calabar The All Progressives Congress Youth Lobby Group (APCYLG) has commenced mobilisation and enlightenment of thousands of voters across the 18 local government areas of Cross River State. The group has so far toured about 5 local government areas including Bekwara, Obanliku, Obudu, Ogoja and Yala educating the youths on the need for them to be part of the 2023 electioneering as the future belongs to them. Commencing the enlightenment campaign from the northern senatorial district of the state, the group led by Mr. Asuquo Ekpenyong, the member representing Cross obby group ay the national body, met with traditional leaders and other prominent people and a cross section of young people imploring them to participate enmass in the forthcoming extended voters registration exercise organised by the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC). Ekpenyong explained that INEC had re-opened the continuous voters’ registration exercise, urging young people of eligible voting age across the five local government areas to take advantage of the process to register or revalidate their Permanent Voters Cards, PVC, in readiness for the 2023 general elections. “I have come to motivate, support and mobilise you as the most active segment of our society, to take the electoral process seriously by registering to vote and also offering yourselves to serve our people by aspiring for the position of your choice in the 2023 elections. Let me first of all use the opportunity to thank the more than 500 youths from each local government areas that attended the maiden edition of the APC Youth Summit held in Calabar. For more than 500 of you to come all the way to Calabar for the youth summit and back shows clearly that you love Ben Ayade and you love Governor Ben Ayade. “The hallmark of the project was to fashion out ways that will ensure every youth within the voting age possesses a valid voters’ card that will be the weapon or instrument of the change you seek,” he said. He informed them that the state government is is working out ways to harness your budding potentials to improve your lot. You should therefore avoid violence and acts likely to harm yourself or the society. The Commissioner also enjoined youths, men and women including the traditional rulers of each local government to register as members of the APC in Cross River State to reap greater dividends of democratic governance. According to him, APC is the only party that would quarantee the future of the youths and foster unity amongst all segments of the state