This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Tony Osauzo, Benin The 2023 general election is the right time for Nigerian youths who constitute majority of the voting population to vote the right people cashing in on the provisions of the new Electoral Act which reduces the possibility of rigging, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Parry Osayande, retd, declared today. Osayande, a former chairman of Police Service Commission, condemned the recent presidential pardon granted some convicted persons, particularly former governors Jolly Nyame of Taraba State and Joshua Dariye of Plateau State, just as he backed the call by a nothern group that President Buhari should resign for failing to secure the lives of Nigerians. The retired DIG who spoke to journalists in Benin City, said “All the politicians are jokers and they are taking us for a ride. It is high time the youth which form the majority should forget about money and use their votes with the improvements made by the new electoral law because by bringing in technology, rigging will not be as easy as it used to be therefore the youths have a more formidable weapon to use in the new Electoral Act. Vote the charlatans out of office. “So if the government is not sufficiently responsible to come and carry out the functions defined by the constitution then vote it out”, he stressed. Apparently referring to the call by Chief Afe Babalola for Interim Government, Osayande said “Somebody is talking about interim government, is there any government here? In any case why can’t the president resign if he cannot carry out his functions?”, even as he pointed out that granting pardon to Dariye and Nyame was criminal conspiracy. “That (pardon) is absolute rubbish. How can you do a thing like that? Somebody who has stolen public funds, people are dying and then you say you have pardoned such a person? What about somebody who was dying of hunger and stole chicken to go and feed his family and he was given nine months imprisonment, was such a person pardoned? This is criminal conspiracy; it is not done in a civilized society they have taken us about 200 years backward”, he added.