This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.   By Steve Agbota Nigeria Customs Service Board (NCSB) on Tuesday, announced the promotion of 3,466 general duty and support staff officers to their next rank. In a press statement by the, National Public Relations Officer, DC Timi Bomodi, he said the Nigeria Customs Service Board (NCSB), at its 54th Regular meeting on Tuesday, March 29, 2022, approved the promotion. Bomodi stated that the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning who also double as the Chairman, NCS Board, Hajiya Zainab Ahmed who presided over the meeting highlighted the importance of discipline and engendering work ethic based on transparency and an all-encompassing reward system. The Comptroller according to Bomodi are, “S.A Bomoi; A.A Anthony; BO Olumo; CK Niagwan; MM Tilleygyado; MC Ugbagu. Others are, CD Wada; A Bako; AM Adegbite; KI Adesola (Mrs); NP Umoh; OO Orbih and RC Nwankwo.” A breakdown of the 3,466 Officers whose promotion has 1st January 2021 as the effective date are as follows, “Deputy Comptroller to Comptroller of Customs; Deputy Comptroller to Comptroller of Customs; Assistant Comptroller of Customs to Deputy Comptroller of Customs; Assistant Comptroller of Customs to Deputy Comptroller of Customs.” Others are Chief Superintendent of Customs to Assistant Comptroller of Customs; Chief Superintendent of Customs to Assistant Comptroller of Customs; Superintendent of Customs to Chief Superintendent of Customs; Superintendent of Customs to Chief Superintendent of Customs. “Deputy Superintendent of Customs to Superintendent of Customs; Deputy Superintendent of Customs to Superintendent of Customs; Assistant Superintendent of Customs 1 to Deputy Superintendent of Customs; Assistant Superintendent of Customs 1 to Deputy Superintendent of Customs; Assistant Superintendent of Customs II to Assistant Superintendent of Customs 1; Assistant Superintendent of Customs II to Assistant Superintendent of Customs 1; Inspector of Customs to Assistant Superintendent of Customs II and Inspector of Customs to Assistant Superintendent of Customs II,” he added. The minister, however, commended NCS management for breaking new grounds in trade facilitation and revenue generation in the year 2021 and urged the newly promoted officers to redouble their efforts in achieving the goals of the service in the current year.