This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja Ahead of the presidential primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the aspiration of Vice President Yemi Osibanjo has received a major boost with an Arewa elder, Senator Muhammad Abba Aji, endorsing him as the best aspirant to win the party’s ticket for the 2023 election. Abba Aji, who served as Special Adviser on National Assembly Matters to two Presidents assured that despite challenges, Osinbajo has a solid support base in the North, along with thriving circles of influential supporters across the South. Speaking with newsmen in Abuja on Monday, Abba Aji who is one of the Arewa elders in the Progressive Consolidation Group (PCG), a pro-Osinbajo lobby group dt has bn active since mid 2021 also applauded the spontaneous nationwide celebrations that greeted Professor Yemi Osinbajo’s declaration for the 2023 presidency. ‘I have been in politics since the early 80s and I can tell you that the Nigerian electorate is now much wiser, much more discerning and sophisticated than what you had in the past; the spontaneous rallies are a show of strength, asserting the power of the real people and It is a strong pointer to Prof Osinbajo’s very bright chances for ultimate electoral victory,’ he said. While describing Tinubu as a great party leader who should feel vindicated that the good idea brought forward in the person of Osinbajo has continued to flourish, Senator Abba Aji, said: ‘Asiwaju is a great leader of our party and his rile in bringing about an Osinbajo Vice Presidency has been vindicated; having performed creditably, impressing President Buhari and millions of Nigerians. ‘Vice President Osinbajo’s declaration for the 2023 presidency is a reflection of very sound growth and the next step is for Osinbajo to assume the Presidency I’m 2023,’ Abba Aji said. He further noted that Osinbajo has really bright chances of winning the coming presidential elections, stressing that the security situation in his home state of Borno has vastly improved under the Buhari administration. Arguing that Osinbajo has greatly impressed Nigerians with his performances during the period when he acted as President, he said: ‘Osinbajo’s chances are very bright in the view of most people that I have interacted with claimed that he is better than anyone else but we are in a democracy and others also have a right to present themselves and increase the choices available to the electorate.’