This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Tony John, Port Harcourt The  Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Rivers State Command, has arrested 14 suspects for unlawful dealings in petroleum products.  The arrests premised on the renewed vigour and strategic efforts put in place by the Command to combat the menace of oil theft, illegal refineries, oil bunkering and illegal dealings in petroleum product in Rivers State. Among the suspects were: Chinonso Anowo (m) 35 years; Babagana Umaru (m) 40 years; Victor Emeama (m) 49 years; Ifeanyi Chinaka (m) 42 years; Ndubisi Nwoji (m), 41 years and Echefulachi Okoro (m) 33 years.  Parading the suspects, yesterday, the Public Relations Officer of the NSCDC, Rivers State Command, DSC Olufemi Ayodele, said the arrests were made possible following a marching order given by the State Commandant, Abu Tambuwal, who had reiterated, on his assumption of duty, that the war against illegal bunkering in Rivers State was non-negotiable. Ayodele noted that the command is currently under a new Sheriff in town with zero tolerance for all anti-government activities, most especially the act of sabotaging the economy of the nation through vandalism of oil pipelines and illegal dealings in petroleum products.  The command’s spokesman said the suspects were involved in illegal dealings in petroleum products and transportation of petroleum products without haulage licences, offences punishable under the Miscellaneous Offences Act, Law of the Federation 2004. The Command spokesman said that three suspects: Oluchukwu Nwachukwu, (m) 33 years; Uche Nwankwo, (m) 29 years, and Chinwendu Onwenyisi, (m) 31 years, were also arrested with four cars conveying about four drums of suspected illegally refined AGO concealed in cellophane bags, equivalent to 800 litres. Also, a light grey coloured Toyota Camry with registration number Imo State  AG 342 KGE, blue Toyota Camry with registration number Delta LEH 64 EX, a White Toyota Camry with registration number Lagos LSD 58 BJ and a deep grey Toyota Camry Car with registration number Rivers AM 25 BNY were impounded at Airport Roundabout in Ikwerre Local Government Area. Similarly, Isaac Helliday, (m) 39 years; Joseph Tambufo, 50 years; Wisdom Batubo, (m) 35 years, and Felix Friday, 32 years, were arrested with two wooden boats loaded with suspected illegally refined AGO on waterways, along Bakana River and Abonnema Wharf, respectively.  While reaffirming the Command’s continuous synergy with other relevant agencies, Ayodele hinted that the suspects would definitely be charged to court at the expiration of thorough investigation.  He called on Rivers people to collaborate with the NSCDC State Command by giving credible intelligence, noting that safeguarding critical national assets and infrastructure in the state is a collective responsibility. The issued a stern warning to economic saboteurs in the state, that they either engage themselves in legal ventures or risk facing the wrath of the law.