This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has assured Nigerians that the current spate of uncertainty and insecurity would soon unfold a season of triumph of good over evil, hope over despair and light over darkness.  He said this in his Easter message to Nigerians as they join the rest of the world to mark the crucification, burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ. According to him, Easter evokes in Nigerians the resilience of the human spirit not to give up in the face of seemingly daunting challenges of life. The message read: “I join our Christian brothers and sisters to celebrate this year’s Easter, which is the most significant event/festival in the Christian calendar.  This year’s celebration is very unique for adherents of the two great faiths in Nigeria. It culminates the 40-day season of Lent for Christians, where the faithful is expected to fast, pray, assist the poor, abhor injustice and strife, give alms, penitently engage in self-examination and repentance of sins.  Similar values apply to the Muslim faithful, currently about half-way into the holy month of Ramadan.  For us as a nation, the message of Easter, which commemorates the resurrection of Jesus Christ after crucifixion and burial, reminds   us of the power of divine love, faith and redemption.   Easter also evokes in us the resilience of the human spirit not to give up in the face of seemingly daunting challenges of life. This period emboldens us to believe that the current spate of uncertainty and insecurity will soon unfold a season of triumph of good over evil; hope over despair, and light over darkness.  “I urge us to increase our love for one another rather than hate, and show more patriotism, as this is the only country we have.  I enjoin us therefore, to live out the eternal words of Jesus Christ on the cross: ‘‘Father, forgive them for they know not what they are doing.’  “Let us remember that the scriptural emphasis of love has so much relevance for us today as a nation more than ever before, and thus contribute towards its peace and development.  As we approach another season of electioneering, let the security and unity of the nation guide our actions and utterances.”