This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. By Chinelo Obogo Finchglow Travels, Nigeria’s number one indigenous travel management company has recently been conferred with the awards of the Overall Best Seller in 2021 by British Airways. The Chief Executive Officer, Finchglow Travels, Mr. Bankole Bernard upon receiving the award said: “The most fulfilling thing about this award is that it is a testament to our commitment to excellence and delivery of quality service. We are thrilled to have further proof that Finchglow Travels is the best in this industry and it is with great pleasure that I dedicate this award to our esteemed customers, and staff who made this possible. “We have worked with British Airways for close to 13 years as a trade partner and over the years, the experience has been fruitful. We look forward to doing more business with the British Airways team; we reassure our esteemed customers and trade partners of our unwavering commitment to excellence.” Presenting the award, the Head of Sales, British Airways, South Asia, Middle East and Africa, Mr. Moran Birger and the Country Manager, British Airways, Mrs. Adetutu Otuyalo noted that Finchglow Travels had performed excellently in 2021 and the airline looks forward to more of this in 2022. In a related development, Mr. Bernard announced that Finchglow Travels will be expanding to Kano in May in line with the company’s goal to expand across Nigeria and Africa. The General Manager, Sales and Operations at Finchglow Travels, Mr. Ezekiel Ikotun, said: “We are determined to reduce the burden of travel management services on travelers and this will continue to propel our expansion across different states in Nigeria and the region. Finchglow Travels has been in existence since 2006 and within that period we already have eight offices across Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt. We will continue to expand in line with our set vision. We have built a solid reputation and we have continued to soar by adopting excellence as our watchword.” Photo caption: (L-R ) Mrs. Peju Diya, Sales Manager, British Airways A; Mr. Bankole Bernard, Managing Director, Finchglow Travels, Mr. Moran Birger, Head of Sales, South Asia, Middle-East and Africa, BA and Mrs. Adetutu Otuyalo, Country Manager, BA.