This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa   The Member, Representing Brass-Nembe Federal Constituency, Hon. Israel Sunny-Goli has hailed the move by the Federal Government, to revive the $22 billion Brass Liquefied Natural Gas (BLNG) project, which has been comatose for about 17 years.   Sunny- Goli who stated this while reacting to the interest from a prospective investor, Greenville LNG, in the Brass LNG project, said he is elated by the development, as the revival of the project would serve as a panacea to the issue of youth unemployment in Brass-Nembe Federal constituency, and the entirety of the Niger Delta, when the project takes-off.   He pleaded with Federal government to leave no stone unturned, at ensuring that the prospective investor in the project, Greenville LNG, commits to the actualisation of the project, as it holds limitless economic opportunities for Nigeria, given the global demand for cleaner sources of energy.   The statement reads in part: “The news of the federal government’s effort at resuscitating the Brass LNG project, which has suffered numerous setbacks in the past, and has been confined to a state of comatose for close to 17 years, is received with great joy.”   “It would indeed, be a dream come true, to see the actualization of this great project, as it would serve as a panacea to the plague of unemployment our teeming youths have been grappling with over the years, in Brass-Nembe Federal Constituency, and the entirety of the Niger Delta region.   “The visit to the project site over the weekend, by  the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources , H.E Timipre Sylva and the Chairman and Managing Director of Greenville LNG respectively, Mr Eddy Van Den Broeke and Ritu Sahajwalla, is a commendable gesture, which has rekindled the hope of the people from the host community, Twon-Brass,  who have been praying fervently for the resuscitation of the project, which is guaranteed to spur economic activities on the Island.”   “This is a project with the potential of creating about 18,000 direct jobs, and countless in-direct jobs, it  is therefore gratifying to see the determination on  the part of the  federal government  to revive this project,  which offers our people boundless opportunities and our nation great economic boost, considering the global demand for cleaner sources of energy, and our need for a diversified economy.”   Sunny-Goli expressed confidence in the ability of Minister of state, for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva to ensure that the Final Investment Decision, (FID) on the project, is secured as soon as possible, and lauded his unrelenting effort at ensuring the diversification of Nigeria’s economy, through gas.