This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Former governor of Bayelsa State and senator representing Bayelsa West Henry Seriake Dickson has again restated that he would only support candidates that have the backing of Governor Douye Diri. Senator Dickson, who made the declaration while speaking with a large crowd of supporters in Yenagoa shortly before his screening by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) senatorial screening, said he would work for the success of all candidates selected through the process by the Governor, Senator Douye Diri, who is the leader of the party and the critical stakeholders. He thanked party supporters for their continued support for the Governor and the PDP administration in the state. ‘I want to thank you all and I urge you to continue to support our party and our government,’ he said. ‘I believe that I will join the Governor, who is the leader of our party, to campaign for all the candidates that he and stakeholders will select in accordance with the constitution and guidelines of our party.’ Dickson said that he was visiting the state to present himself for the screening of his political party in accordance with stipulations of the law and the party’s guidelines, with the commencement of the political process. He thanked the huge crowd for coming out in the heavy rain to show sustenance of their solidarity and support and prayers. ‘As you know today, I am in the state for a purpose. The political process has started. I am here to submit myself in accordance with the constitution and guidelines of our party, the PDP. ‘We thank God, our state is peaceful. I want to thank all our people; men, boys, chiefs, elders, women, people of all descriptions, of all ages who found time, even in spite of the weather that is not so clear, to be here, to wait here to receive me in this heart-warming manner. ‘I lack the words to appreciate our people for their abiding solidarity and support, as well as their prayers. This is recurring and I think it is indeed humbling.’ A group of top politicians from Ekeremor and Sagbama Local Government Areas, making up the Bayelsa West Senatorial District, had bought the expression of interest and nomination for the Senator and presented it to him in Abuja on March 30.