This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Godwin Tsa, Abuja. A Federal High Court in Abuja has ordered that contempt charge be served on four senior lawyers involved in the $418 million Paris Club refund suit through Courier services. The four Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs) are Sunday Ibrahim Ameh, Jubrin Okutepa, Garba Tetengi and Olumuyiwa Akinboro. The order for substituted service issued by Justice Inyang Ekwo followed complaints that the four lawyers have allegedly refused to personally receive the charge as required by law. The contempt charge was initiated against them by a private company, Panic Alerts and its sponsor,  George Uboh, who accused the lawyers of engaging in wrongdoings in their service to their client. In the contempt charge,  the lawyers  were alleged to have placed “Caveat Emptor” on the judgment of the Federal High Court which granted permission to President Muhammadu Buhari to deduct the $418 million from the financial allocations of the 36 state governments as payments for debt they incurred during the Paris Club refund contract. The implications of the “Caveat Emptor”, according to the two applicants, was to impede the execution of the $418million judgment debt against the 36 states as their clients. At yesterday’s proceeding, counsel to George Uboh and Panic Alert, Emeka Okoro moved an ex-parte application which asked Justice Ekwo to order the contempt charge to be served on the senior lawyers through courier on the ground that they allegedly evaded personal service as required by law. The aggrieved applicants asked the court for an order to serve the contempt charge on the lawyers through a nominated courier company and by pasting same in their respective offices.  Justice Ekwo in a brief ruling on the ex-parte application ordered that motion for contempt charge be served on the senior lawyers within seven days and fixed May 26 for hearing of the motion. One of the senior lawyers, Sunday Ibrahim Ameh had made frantic efforts to stop hearing of the ex-parte application on the ground that an appeal against the judgment debt itself had been lodged at the Court of Appeal and that the Federal High Court no longer has jurisdiction in respect of it. Ameh further told the court that the records of proceedings have been transmitted to Court of Appeal while the appeal itself has been entered in favour of the appellants (36 states) and urged the court not to do anything in respect of the matter. However Justice Ekwo proceeded with the ex-parte application and granted the requests of the two applicants.