This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Senator Henry Seriake Dickson (PDP – Bayelsa West) has warned mischief makers against instigating needless division in the Bayelsa PDP. He warned politicians who are out to cause disaffection among the leadership of the party over issues clearly not unconnected with the 2023 general elections to desist forthwith. Dickson enjoined them to remember the mercy and grace of God which blessed the party’s joint effort to retrieve its stolen mandate, in an effort led by him to midwife the advent of the current administration. Senator Dickson spoke in a statement by his Media Adviser, Mr Fidelis Soriwei, reacting to an article being circulated to sow the seed of discord in Bayelsa. ‘I know that in a politicking period as this, a lot of grievances and disappointments will find expression, faceless articles or statements which if not carefully managed can create a crisis and a negative atmosphere,’ he said. The former governor said that he had always made it known to political aspirants and indeed the PDP family that he doesn’t have any preferred candidate outside of those to be endorsed and supported by the governor and the stakeholders. ‘As I have always maintained, in a political period all ambitions are legitimate. People should pray, consult and work hard,’ he stated. ‘In my current position, I do not have any special candidate for the forthcoming election. As a father to all, in the PDP, candidates I will support are the candidates endorsed by the Governor and the stakeholders across the state, I know that a number of people may feel disappointed that I am not endorsing or pushing for them. ‘I believe the Governor, as the leader of the party, leading the consultations with stakeholders and leaders, managing the aspirations of members will look into all emergent issues and resolve them accordingly in the interest of the party. ‘I have decided to limit my role to the provision of necessary advice and guidance to the Governor and stakeholders whenever that is required and no amount of blackmail will change that.’ Senator Dickson who disclosed he is in constant consultations with Diri congratulated the latter over the completion and commissioning of the New Yenagoa City Bridge, and the road which was also initiated by the Restoration Government but completed by the Diri administration in the spirit of continuity. He says he is looking forward to ‘joining the Governor and the stakeholders to campaign for the victory of our candidates in the next election.’