This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The University of Ilorin (UNILORIN) on Monday announced that the post of Vice-Chancellor of the institution will be vacant effective from Oct. 16, 2022. This is contained in a statement issued in Ilorin and signed by Dr Fola Olowoleni, the university’s Registrar/Secretary to Council. According to Olowoleni, the announcement is in accordance with the provisions of the Universities (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act No. 11 of 1993. “As amended by Act No. 25 of 1996 and The Universities (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment) Act 2012. “The Council has decided to commence in earnest the due process of appointing a new Vice-Chancellor. “Consequently, applications are hereby invited from suitably qualified candidates for the position,” she said. The registrar stated that the university was established by the Federal Government of Nigeria in 1975. She explained that the institution has become one of the fastest-growing public universities in Nigeria with an enviable record of academic excellence. According to her, the institution has been the most sought-after university by candidates in the past five years. She stated that the vision of the university is to be an international centre of excellence in learning, research, probity and service to humanity. Olowoleni said that the university’s mission statement is to provide a world-class environment for learning, research and community service. The registrar added that the institution guides jealously its core values which are coined to encourage inclusiveness in its operations. These, she said, border on Excellence, Integrity Transparency, Empathy, Justice and Fair Play, Innovation and Creativity, and Team Work, among others. She also said that the university pride itself as one of the most stable institutions in Nigeria. Olowoleni also disclosed that academic activities are carried out in a serene, peaceful and friendly environment, with students completing their programmes as and when due. “Of recent, the university ranked 7th in the overall ranking of Nigerian universities by the National Universities Commission (NUC), 3rd in federal universities category and 1st in the North-Central geopolitical zone category. “It was also ranked 2nd in Nigeria by the Times Higher Education (THE) in February 2022. “It is one of the two Universities ranked A+ in the only Institutional Accreditation of Nigerian Universities by the National Universities Commission (NUC), 2011/2012 session, thereby earning a 7-year full institutional accreditation status,” she said. Olowoleni further explained that the vice-chancellor shall, in line with the Act establishing the university, be the Chief Executive and Academic Officer of the institution and shall exercise general supervision over the university. “The Vice-Chancellor shall be Ex-Officio Chairman of Senate, Congregation and a member of the University Governing Council. “The Vice-Chancellor shall be responsible to the Council for the day-to-day management of the human, financial and material resources of the University,” she said. The registrar also stated that the ideal candidate for the post of UNILORIN vice-chancellor must be a distinguished Professor of not less than 10 years by Oct. 16, 2022, in one of the disciplines offered by the institution. She said the candidate should be able to have demonstrated and astute managerial abilities to maintain the peace, inclusiveness and academic stability for which the university is reputed, among others. (NAN)