This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Priscilla Ediare, Ado Ekiti An Ekiti State Chief Magistrates’ Court sitting in Ado Ekiti has ordered a 55-year-old woman, Abereoje Idowu, to be remanded in the Nigerian Correction Centre, Ado Ekiti, for offences of conspiracy to murder and murder of Abere Olaniyi Olarewaju (28) in Ilawe Ekiti. According to the Police prosecutor, Inspector Elijah Adejare, the accused person committed the offences of conspiracy to murder and murder in Ilawe Ekiti on 19th April, 2022, he said the offences contravene sections 324 and 319 (1) of the Criminal Code Cap C 16, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012. Inspector Elijah requested for the order to allow Police complete their investigation and send the duplicate case file to office of Director of Public Prosecutions for legal advice. In his statement to the Police, one of the eye witnesses said, there was a misunderstanding between the accused person and the deceased, Idowu held the deceased clothes, people were there separating and begging her to leave his clothes but insisted to show her true colour to the deceased, she later called one of her children Abereoje Ademola now at large who later came with a knife, he stabbed the deceased at the back and later joined her mother in beating the deceased till he became unconscious, he was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was referred to Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, Ado Ekiti but died before they got to Ado Ekiti, he concluded. In his ruling, Magistrate Tomiwa Daramola said, I am of the firm view that the prosecutor’s application to remand the accused person is genuine. The accused is hereby ordered to be remanded in the custody of Nigeria Correctional Service, Ado Ekiti for thirty days pending conclusion of Police investigation and duplicate case file is ordered to be sent to Director of public Prosecutions, Ministry of Justice Ekiti State for legal advice. The case has been adjourned to May 25 for mention.