This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Adanna Nnamani, Abuja Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo, the wife of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, and Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello, along with a host of other prominent Nigerians will be attending the forthcoming 2022 edition of Focus Africa Leading Women Conference and Award. The leading women’s conference will bring together a unique collection of female Leaders making an impact in business, government, media and entertainment, artisans, and even market women from 27 countries, to promote entrepreneurship, inclusion, gender diversity and to break the bias women face in order to address stereotypes. This was disclosed in a statement made available to Journalists, in Abuja, signed by the Convener, Focus Africa Leading Women Conference, Sucex Bright. He pointed out that at the event, every woman will be able to reemerge, rebuild and reset the pathways of change to unleash the power within them. According to him, the event also will recognise and honour 100 Leading/Emerging Women and men in Africa who are empowering and providing platform/support for other women to excel and the society to become better through advocacy and humanitarian projects. Also speaking, Mrs Alayingi Uduak Sylva, the wife of the former Bayelsa State Governor Timipre Sylva, said that a focus Africa Magazine, women edition will be unveiled with recognition of voices in Africa that have shown remarkable leadership in their various fields and career. ‘Alongside the 100 leading women recognition, we will present a few awards, and the Focus Africa Magazine women edition will be launched with a report to be published on 9th May 2022, the report will centre on the theme – “Women Helping Women”,’ she said. ‘And will highlight contributions from forward-thinkers and brands that are changing the narratives in Leadership & Governance, Business, Politics, Agriculture, Sports, Oil & Gas, Education, Community Development, and Legal profession, ICT, Manufacturing, Health, Engineering, Transport & Maritime, Real-Estate, Religion, Society and more”, Her Excellency Mrs Sylva Stated. According to Amb Jibril Abdullahi Muregi, the international Coordinator for Focus Africa Projects, this event will be live on various channels and on our online platforms targeting about 10 million viewers in about 27 Countries during the opening ceremony. Personalities who would grace the occasion are: Her Excellency Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo, His Excellency Yahaya Adoza Bello, HE Hajiya Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, Her Excellency Deaconess Nkechi Ikpeazu, HE Dame Judith Amaechi, HE Mrs Diri, HE Hajiya Amina Bello, HRH King Prof Onyeche Promise Obinna (JP), and many others.