This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From: LAYI OLANREWAJU, Ilorin The Kwara State police command, on Wednesday, arrested 13 suspects said to be perpetrators of the recent three-day cultists onslaughts in Ilorin metropolis. Recall that during the onslaughts, eight persons were killed, while several others sustained various degrees of injuries. The development also caused a lot of apprehension among the residents of the areas affected by the cultists onslaughts. The three-day blood letting was allegedly caused by the supremacy battles that ensued between the two rival cult groups in the ancient town. Mostly affected areas by the cultists onslaughts included Oyun , Ikokoro, Osere, Olunlade ,Niger, Kilanko, Olufadi, Egebejila and Ita -Ogunbo areas of Ilorin. However, the state police command confirmed that only three people were killed during the onslaughts. Speaking with journalists in Ilorin, the state capital, on Wednesday, over the incident, Public Relations Officer, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Ajayi Okasanmi, said that 13 suspects had been arrested in connection with the cultists onslaughts in the ancient town of Ilorin. He said that, the affected suspects were arrested by the men of the state special armed response team of the state police command. Okasanmi, however, explained that, “After thorough interrogation of the arrested suspects, six suspects were found culpable in the incident.” The police spokesman stressed that  the suspects would soon be arraigned before the court of law, adding that efforts were on to nab others suspected to have involved in the clash. He debunked speculation that the mastermind of the clash were members of vigilance group in the state, noted further that, the state police command would not tolerate breakdown of law and order from any quarter. Ajayi, therefore, warned troublemakers to desist from their acts saying that, “the law would take its normal course if any one is arrested for breakdown of law and order in the state”. He also advised the residents of the state to continue to support the police command in the supply of information about criminals and their hideouts so as to move the state forward.