This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Job Osazuwa Kaduna State Governor, Nasir Ahmed el-Rufai, declared in a television interview on Sunday that  the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will retain 24 states of the Federation in 2019. El-Rufai also said President Muhammadu Buhari is willing to give up power if that is what is needed to make Nigeria progress. The governor disclosed these, when he spoke in Lagos, on Sunday, on the recommendations of the APC Committee on Restructuring. The committee had, among other things,  recommended devolution of power. Devolution is the statutory delegation of powers from the central government of a sovereign state to govern at a subnational level, such as a regional or local level. Devolved territories have the power to make legislation relevant to the area. But, speaking on the Lagos-based television programme, el-Rufai said the president is fully aware of the implications of the provision and is excited about it. “He was excited. He was very pleased and he said he fully supports what we have done and that he is looking forward to the party officially transmitting it to him for his necessary action,” el-Rufai said. “President Buhari is not concerned about his personal power, he is concerned about Nigeria making progress. “If giving up power will make Nigeria progress, he will give all of it up. Not just part of it but all of it. This is the real Buhari that many people don’t know.” He also said the report was done in the interest of Nigeria and that the committee took into consideration the opinion of youths, women and the vulnerable. “It is the most comprehensive review of this subject matter ever in Nigeria’s history. “APC true federalism committee differs from other confabs in at least two ways; first, previous confabs were conclaves of the elite. “The government picks who goes there, they decide who participates and it is mostly old people with a sprinkle of a few women. Our committee opened the space for everyone. “More than one-third of the membership of our committee were women. More than a quarter of the membership were young people, below the age of 40. “It was a very broad range of consultation. Many opposition figures have expressed support for the report. We have proposed more than 20 alterations to the Constitution. Everything we did was in the best interest of Nigeria. “So, this is the first time that a platform has been given to young people and women and those that are vulnerable to give their voices to what shape of the federation they want to see. “Because old people like me, 50, 60, 70 (years) cannot define the future for Nigerian youths below the age of 40. What young women and our people see is completely different from what old people see.” Speaking on former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s “letter-bomb” to Buhari, asking the president not to seek re-election in 2019, el-Rufai said he has not read it because of its length. He, however, said Obasanjo is entitled to his opinion, and added that he “absolutely” supports Buhari’s second term bid. “I have not. It is too long. I am very busy but I get the gist of it. President Obasanjo is Nigerian, he is a patriot and he is entitled to his opinion, just as every other Nigerian. “The Presidency has issued a response, the party has issued a response and that closes the matter. We are moving on. “I do not have any doubt in my mind that we are going to win the next elections. Not only at the centre but we are going to preserve our 24 states and even more. “I believe that president Buhari is the one who will advance the interest of Nigeria and the stability of the country.”