By Christopher Oji The Ogun State Police Command has arrested a 14-year-old girl for allegedly stealing her mistress’ two-year-old- child during a church service in Lagos. The 14-year-old house help, Favour Iwuozor, who allegedly stole the child in Lagos, was  arrested in Ogun State while trying to traffic the victim to Imo State, where she planned to sell him. According to Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, “the suspect was arrested following a complaint lodged at Sagamu Divisional Headquarters by one Victoria Nwafor, who reported that she saw a 14 years old girl on the 22nd of December 2021, carrying  a very sick two-year-old boy in Yaba Lagos. “She stated further that the little girl was begging for alms under the pretence  that the boy was her younger brother and that their parents died in a ghastly motor  accident which December 2020.Out of compassion, the woman took both of them to her house in Sagamu,in order to take care of the little boy’s  deteriorating health condition. “But immediately the boy fully recovered, the suspect wanted to single-handedly take the boy to Imo State. This aroused the woman’s suspicion, hence she  reported the matter  to the Police for Investigation. “Immediately aftee  the report, DPO Sagamu division, CSP Okiki Agunbiade, detailed his detectives to go and bring the girl and the little boy. “During interrogation, the suspect,confessed that she was a maid to the mother of the little boy, and that she left with the boy since on the 19th of December 2021, with the intention of taking him  to Amraku Umorsu in Isiala/Mberna local government area of Imo state. “She stated further that, she stole the child from the Church during Sunday school period. “She said that since the Sunday school teacher knew her to be a house help to the child’s mother, she had no problem releasing the baby to her. “She explained further that she decided to beg for alms in order to raise transport fare to Imo state”. Meanwhile, the State commissioner of Police, Mr. Lanre Bankole, has ordered that the child’s parents be contacted urgently, while the case should be transferred  to Lagos State command whose jurisdiction the crime was actually committed.