Stories by Bimbola Oyesola, 08033246177 Nigeria and other countries currently denying citizens social protection may have no excuse any longer as the International Labour Organisation (ILO) has said that even the poorest countries can afford to extend social protection to all citizens. The ILO said this in its recent World Social Protection Report 2017-2019. According to the ILO report, the universal coverage in old-age pensions has been achieved by more than 20 countries, including Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Cabo Verde, China, Lesotho, Mauritius, Mongolia, Namibia, South Africa, Timor Leste, Trinidad and Tobago and Zanzibar (Tanzania). It stated that countries normally achieve universal coverage by a combination of contributory social insurance and tax-based social assistance or social protection floors.  “Finding out just how much social protection floors cost is easy, thanks to the ILO’s new calculator. The ILO Social Protection Floors Calculator  makes it possible to estimate the costs of child and orphan allowances, maternity benefits, public works programmes for those without jobs, disability and old-age pensions,” the report said.  Results can be found in its companion paper “Universal social protection floors: Costing estimates and affordability in 57 lower income countries,” stated the report just released by the ILO.  The report also highlighted that the cost of universal benefits for 364 million children, 81 million pregnant women, 103 million persons with severe disabilities and 153 million older persons ranges from 0.3 per cent of GDP for Mongolia to 9.8 per cent of GDP for Sierra Leone – with an average cost of 4.2 per cent of GDP in 57 lower income countries. “From a global perspective, these life-changing benefits for 700 million people – nearly 10 per cent of the world’s population – would require only 0.23 per cent of global GDP. That’s just 1.1 per cent of what G20 countries spent to bail out the financial sector in 2009. It is a question of priorities,” said Isabel Ortiz, director of the ILO’s Social Protection Department.  “While some countries have the fiscal space to develop social protection floors, others will have to gradually extend coverage and benefits according to national fiscal capacity, in combination with contributory social insurance schemes.  “It is imperative that governments explore all possible financing alternatives to promote national socio-economic development with jobs and social protection,” Ortiz added. The ILO noted that there is a wide variety of options to generate resources for social protection, including reallocating public expenditures, increasing tax revenues, expanding social security revenues, lobbying for aid and transfers, eliminating illicit financial flows, and managing debt, among others. Another ILO-UNICEF and UNWOMEN 2017 publication, “Fiscal space for social protection and the SDGs. Options to expand social investments in 187 countries,” provides guidance on the multiple options that government has to make social protection a reality.  For example, Indonesia, Ghana and other developing countries are using fuel subsidies for social protection. Argentina, Brazil, Tunisia and Uruguay, among others, extended contributory social security coverage by formalising workers in the informal economy. More than 60 countries have successfully renegotiated debts, using savings from debt servicing for social programmes. Brazil used a financial transaction tax to expand social protection. Bolivia, Mongolia and Zambia are financing universal old-age pensions, child benefits and other schemes from taxes on mining and gas.  The ILO said extending national social protection systems, including floors (SDG 1.3), requires national consultations to agree on national priorities, identify programmes to close social protection gaps, set adequate benefits levels, and estimate the potential costs and possible financing sources based on national circumstances.