Ekiti State government has alleged plot by some entrenched political interests to activate a spate of negative media campaigns against Governor Kayode Fayemi. Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Yinka Oyebode, in a statement, yesterday, claimed the plot was hatched by some entrenched interests within the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) who were uncomfortable with the rising profile of Governor Kayode He said  the plot targets de-marketing Governor Fayemi ahead of the  2023 presidential contest. “The plot, as uncovered, is to use some faceless political groups and political jobbers from different parts of the country to defame the Ekiti state governor. “Specifically, the plan is to use faceless groups to discredit Governor Fayemi and portray him as unacceptable to the generality of the people across the six geo-political zones of the country. “For the avoidance of doubt, Fayemi has not told anyone that he is in the race for the presidency of Nigeria. He has always maintained that he is on duty in Ekiti and would like to concentrate on that assignment. What he does afterwards is in the hands of God and he will cross that bridge at the appropriate time. He restated this position during his most recent interview with Arise TV on January 1, 2022. “We urge members of the public to disregard the potpourri of lies and cheap blackmail that could be released in the coming days, while the promoters of this smear campaign are advised to concentrate on marketing their aspiration to the good people of Nigeria without recourse to defamation or character assassination of perceived competitors.” Oyebode said the Nigerian Constitution states clearly the qualifications for the position of the president of the country and that every qualified adult had the right to aspire to the number one position. “Therefore, we do not believe it is proper, decent or strategic for any aspirant to think his campaign can only gather momentum when he destroys the reputation of a fellow citizen who is perceived as a possible opponent.”