This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, has read the riot act to criminals,  warning them to leave the state or be crushed. This was even as the Police on New Year eve  rescued  residents of Edipie in Yenagoa, the state capital, as they clamped down on about 150 suspected cultists terrorising the area. According to Dickson, in line with the zero tolerance for crime and criminality by his administration, the state would not hesitate to take decisive actions against anyone or groups  He described 2018 as a year of hope and revival in all spheres of national life, especially in the areas of security and economic prosperity. Dickson, who stated this during an interdenominational crossover church service in his hometown, Toru Orua, expressed optimism that the new year carries better prospects than  2017.  The governor, who urged  Nigerians to uphold their leaders in prayers, so as to enable them make sound decisions to expand the frontiers of development in the new year, solicited more support and encouragement from the people. “By the grace of God, 2018 is going to bring more hope, greater development, security and above all, it is going to usher in greater prosperity for all of us. All I ask is your continued support and prayers for all our leaders in this nation. Pray for us to be guided and that we should have divine wisdom, direction, strength and health to do the work that it has pleased God Almighty to entrust on us.” Meanwhile, the state police command responded swiftly to distress calls from Edepie on New Year Eve and arrested several suspected cultists terrorising the area. The suspected cultists,  numbering about 150 had invaded Edepie area and began moving from house to house and churches. They also  attacked people with dangerous weapons and dispossessed them of their valuables, before they were rescued by the police.  Commissioner of Police, Asuquo Amba, who confirmed the raid and arrest, said the command had already started investigations on the matter.