This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Local boxers and organizers of the 18th Diamond Boxing Club Tournament were given a boost when a US-based boxing coach, Bryant Ac and former assistant secretary, Lagos Sports Writers Association (SWAN), Wale Quadri donated boxing equipment for this year’s event scheduled to hold on December 17, at the Papa Playing Ground, off Mayaki Street, Oworonshoki, Lagos. The equipment donated includes boxing gloves, head gears, boots, mouth guard, tapes, groin guards, pads, skipping ropes among others. According to the organizer, the donation was part of the committee’s drive towards lifting the status of the grassroots tournament which is aimed at promoting the development of boxing in the community. Speaking in a telephone conversation, Quadri stated that the donation will boost the organizers’ determination in giving young developing boxers opportunity to showcase their God’s given talents that could shoot them to their professional boxing career. The US based former Lagos SWAN scribe stated further that the donation is a joint effort of his sports promotion outfit, Damolite Inc. and a US-based local boxing academy coach, Bryant Ac, who has expressed delight in lending helping hands to the growth of boxing at the grassroots level in the country. In his own message, the proprietor, Bryant Boxing Academy, expressed his willing to provide similar help to other communities that might approach them. This he said would include mentoring of young boxers to stardom. He added: “This is just like giving back to the community. It’s a token, but it will go a long way in building future talents. I grew up in a community where life was a struggle and boxing has helped me to achieve a lot. I know that talents always emanated at grassroots boxing clubs in local communities. So it’s a pleasure to be able to help my old friends to develop future international boxing stars by donating some equipment.” “It got to start from somewhere. The enthusiasm and talents abound at the grassroots, all we need is to tap and nurture them to greater height and we will not stop at doing that. We are looking after young boxers and at the same time creating a platform for future promoters.” he promised.