This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Fred Ezeh, Abuja  Association of Vice-Chancellors of Nigerian Universities (AVCNU), has launched a search for a realistic and durable solution to accommodation problem in the nation’s universities. The VCs were unhappy that no Nigerian university could comfortably provide accommodation for 40 per cent of its students, thus forcing the students to seek alternative source of shelter, making them vulnerable to social vices such as kidnap, drug abuse, prostitution and gang rape. Search for the solution however dominated discussions at the one day high-level policy dialogue on affordable housing in Nigerian universities held in Abuja recently. The meeting enjoyed impressive participation of VCs from both private and public universities in Nigeria, as well as stakeholders in the housing sector. AVCNU Chairman, Prof. Debo Adeyewa, in his remarks, expressed concern over the deplorable state of hostels in Nigerian universities, particularly in government owned institutions. He appealed to the private and public stakeholders, as well as investors to arrive at a realistic measure that would improve the living condition of students in Nigerian universities. AVCNU alternate Chairman, Prof. Decent Sheni, who represented the substantive Adeyewa at the occasion, said that aside paucity of fund and unfavourable business environment, the age long practice of N90 per bed space in Nigerian university hostels was no longer realistic. He said: “Even though we have not been able to generate enough fund to address the accommodation issue in our universities, experts in this meeting should be able to provide solution to the problem of affordable accommodation shortage in our institutions. AVCNU Secretary General, Prof. Michael Faborode, agreed with the earlier speaker that housing problem in higher institutions has affected the academic performance of students particularly in the government owned universities. The keynote speaker, Pascal Onyemaechi, used video documentary to expose the school managers to the state of affairs in university hostels. He encouraged them to pledge and support #BuildforNigeria project championed by AVCNU in order to bring succour to students, particularly those who could not afford private accommodations. He was optimistic that the project will introduce decency and discipline among the students, and also afford them the comfort for their academic works.