This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Bayelsa state governor, Seriake Dickson has been given a pat on the back over the Samson Siasis Stadium project which is now nearing completion ahead of the 2017 soccer season. The chief executive officer of the firm handling the project, Ebi Egbe disclosed yesterday that he is working round the clock to ensure that the stadium is ready for Bayelsa teams to use early next year. Egbe whose firm Monimichelle has Italy based Limota franchise to build Geo technology pitches in Africa said Dickson deserves commendation for taking steps to see Bayelsa teams return home. “As we speak, I m hundred percent sure Bayelsa teams won’t continue to play outside Yenagoa from next season. The Samson Siasia Stadium turf is 90 percent ready. Gov Dickson wants to see place ready even this December. He ( the governor) deserves plaudits for all that he is doing to turn things around in Bayelsa sports. The beauty of what Dickson is doing is that he wants to put sports facilities in place in every nook and cranny of the state,” Egbe said. Several football stakeholders who have visited the Samson Siasia Stadium have been commending the project going on there. NFF president Pinnick Amaju had during a recent visit said he would get the Eagles to play in Yenagoa when the project is completed. Former Eagles coach, Samson Siasia only last expressed delight over what he saw at the arena named in his honor. It would be noted that all Bayelsa based clubs over the years play football outside their base no thanks to the non availability of a suitable football turf. Egbe has assured that the Samson Siasia Stadium turf would be one of the best pitches in Africa when completed. “What we are doing in Yenagoa is world class. It would be one of the best turfs in Africa when completed. Anybody who has seen the soft base and the amount of work that went into it, would agree that we are on course,” Egbe said.