This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja THE Consul General of Nigeria in Shanghai, People’s Republic of China, Anderson Madubike, has appealed to authorities of Shanghai Municipality, on the need for flexibility regarding rules and processes of acquiring property, especially for African consulates. Madubike made the call during his first official meeting with the Deputy Mayor of Shanghai, Mr. Xu Kunlin. Madubike, Nigeria’s fourth consul general in Shanghai, was received by Mr Xu, in line with China’s diplomatic ethics. By virtue of that meeting, Madubike has been fully accepted by the host government and can function appropriately as the Nigerian consul general in Shanghai. In a statement issued by the Consulate in Abuja, yesterday, Madubike said the request for acquisition of property became necessary due to the high cost of real estate in Shanghai. The envoy had, in the course of the meeting, thanked the mayor for receiving him and conveyed President Muhamma- du Buhari fraternal greetings. “During the meeting, Madubike assured the mayor that he would do his best to sustain and promote the bilateral relationship between both countries. “The consul reiterated the laudable programmes of the Federal Government of Nigeria, especially efforts being made for the national growth and diversification of the economy. “He further spoke of the breakthrough and successes recorded by the Armed Forces in the fight against insurgency in the North East of Nigeria. “He also informed the mayor that the Nigerian armed forces have almost decimated Boko Haram, and that the insur- gents are no longer able to hold on to any Nigerian territory; as was the case hitherto. “The envoy also seized the auspicious occasion to mention to the mayor on the need for some flexibility by the Shanghai Municipality Authority, concerning the rules and processes of acquiring proper- ties, especially for African Consulates.” Madubike further recalled that Nigeria did a similar thing for all diplomatic missions in the country when it relocated the country’s capital to Abuja, during the regime of former military President, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida. In his response, the mayor thanked Madubike and said his country is excited and always happy to work with Nigeria, in any area, to promote the warm bilateral relationship between the countries. Xu also informed Madubike that he noted the request and would get back to him appropriately. He mentioned the forth coming expo in Shanghai, next year, and the importance of Nigeria’s participation. The mayor further advised Madubike to feel free to meet with relevant authorities to facilitate his job, even as he wished him a successful tour of duty.