This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. …To collaborate with LASTMA, assures residents of peaceful Yuletide Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Imohimi Edgal, has ordered the deployment of a sizable chunk of police workforce in the Command to join in the efforts to ensure free-flow of traffic across the metropolis. In the past few days, traffic situation had worsened in some areas in the State due to increase in social activities owing to the yuletide season, as well as construction works being carried out by the state government. A statement issued, on Monday, by the Public Relations Officer of the State Police Command, SP Chike Oti, said having been aware of the traffic situation, the CP has already directed that immediate steps be taken to ameliorate the situation to ensure seamless connectivity across the State. According to Oti, “The Lagos State Police Command as part of its enlightenment obligation to the good people of Lagos State, wishes to inform the general public that due to the upbeat in social activities in and around Lagos State this yuletide season, which has resulted to a corresponding increase in vehicular traffic, in addition to the construction works being carried out by the State Government at various parts of the State, traffic gridlocks has become a direct consequence of these developments in some parts of the city. “However, the Commissioner of Police Lagos State, CP. Edgal Imohimi, as part of measures to ameliorate the situation has directed that a sizable chunk of police workforce in the Command be deployed to ease the traffic in the city of commerce. “He has also directed the State Traffic Officer (STO), SP. Margaret Okonkwo to collaborate with the General Manager of Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Mr. Olawale Musa, to achieve this objective.” While wishing all Lagosians a happy yuletide season, the CP also assured residents of security of lives and property this season and beyond, just as he urged the people to feel free to report any suspicious activities around them to law enforcement agents.