This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Desmond Mgboh, Kano The Presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has pledged to revive the commercial and agricultural fortunes of the people of Kano State. The former Vice President made the pledge in Kano, on Sunday, during the party’s presidential campaign rally which took place at Sani Abacha Stadium, Kofar Mata, Kano. According to Atiku, who arrived in the stadium with his team in an open luxury bus, Kano State is known all over for commerce and agriculture, regreted that the state had witnessed a sharp decline in those areas since the coming of the Buhari administration. Atiku who dressed in the red and white attire of Kwankwassiyya members, also promised to improve hajj operations  while tasking the crowd to vote for the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) from top to the bottom. Atiku who earlier paid a courtesy visit to the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Muhammad Sanusi, also promised to improve hajj operations for greater efficiency. In his remarks, the National Chairman of PDP, Chief Uche Secondus, described the crowd that turned up at the stadium as a revolution by the people of the state in favour of his party while  insisting that Kano had not only fallen, but was now 100 percent PDP. He warned those who are thinking of coming to Kano State to rig the presidential elections to have a rethink as they would be resisted. He invited the Independent Electoral Commission of Nigeria (INEC) as well as security agencies in the country to take note of the massive turnout of supporters in the stadium, saying that from the crowd at the event, everybody could see that the people of the state had spoken as to their choice and preference. He asked the people of the state to vote for Atiku Abubakar, saying that he would put food on the table of Nigerians and return the nation’s lost glory. Former Kano State governor, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, urged his followers to vote for Alhaji Atiku Abubakar even as he reiterated that Kano belongs to Kwankwassiyya and no other political  institution, person or groups. The rally was graced by the Senate President, Chief Bukola Saraki; the party’s governorship candidate, Alhaji Abba  Kabiru Yusuf and a host of other party dignitaries from Abuja. They were received by a huge crowd which waited till 6 00pm for the arrival of the campaign train. Meanwhile, several supporters of the party slumped due suffocation and fatigue while waiting for the arrival Atiku. They were eventually revived by the medical team.