This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. There have been several unusual marital challenges that after all considerations, divorce seems to be about the only option left. Inasmuch as adults have rights to their lives; before one takes this life-time decision, it is very important for one to give in all one’s best before taking the final pronouncement on divorce.  It is not about the men this time or the women either, because for a divorce to take place to end marriages, men and women have been compulsorily involved in the union. No man or woman is a saint; there are badly behaved men likewise women who have thrown morals to the wind. When the bad eggs did not call themselves to other, divorce will take away the companionship, friendship, happiness and joyful living in a marriage. Now, for those who threaten their partners with divorce campaigns, how sure are you that your next action is the needed heavenly blessing? Can you go through the process of divorce case and be a happy and fulfilled being? Do you make progress with a divorce project? How sure are you that the new partner will behave better? Before you go into divorce, have you weighed all options, have you asked yourself the necessary questions, crossed all your t’s and dotted all your i’s before making your final declaration? Are you sure and ready to follow the biblical rule that asks divorcees to keep all thighs closed up and be on their own because God in heaven hates divorce? Have you given yourself a separation as a litmus test before the theory of divorce is applied just like secondary school students write mock to prepare for the main WAEC examination, at least to know the taste of the pudding which is actually in the eating? Have you considered the place of the children before the final whistle blows?  What about the larger families that were involved when the marriage was contracted, or are they not important like many would say “It is my life and my decision”.  Interestingly, there are situations where divorce cases are unavoidable, especially when life is being threatened from either a man or a woman. It takes a living being to amend his or her marriage because there is no divorce in the grave. To hear that a jealous woman poured acid on her husband who had come back from work; while lying on the couch sporting his boxer shorts, and was suddenly bathed with sulphuric acid because of suspicion of infidelity, before he got help to the hospital, he died on the way. Such a woman should have been divorced before he took the life of her husband. Men have also shown women the worst type of inhumanity that has led to different types of death. Equally, a man was allegedly understood to have used his wife and children for rituals. Whenever the wife gives birth and the husband visits them in the hospital to see his new born baby, the moment he takes his leave, the child would die. That was how he lost two children and finally his wife and later he got richer. If the story is true as said, such a husband should be divorced outrightly because his hand is fully stained with blood.  Next, in a situation where a man or woman is being forced to divorce her husband by family members and friends is a big sin. The dangers start from couples de-marketing themselves to their different families and friends. When everyone has the dossier of the bad marriage in their hand, each struggles to save his or her own child and in the process divorce looms. Not once or twice have mummy’s boys listened to their families and drive away their sweet hearts. Why it became a source of concern is that some of these couples are not psychologically strong to go to the process of divorce on their own; some cannot even stand up to it, they take instructions from family members and friends.  Again, misunderstanding in marriages are very common, and left to the quarrelling couple involved, they will reconcile within days and be seen loving  each other again, hugging and lying naked in their little corner. But when they are misled into divorce by friends and family members, they are shattered and usually end up in total regret.  It played out in one of the Western states when a couple came with their parents to the court to hear the final judgment on their lingering marital issue. Divorce was officially handed over to the man and his wife; the wife’s mother told her in-laws: “I am not ready to suffer and train children again, how do we do it? The husband’s mother stretched her hands and carried the two young children, all got into her son’s car and they drove off. The divorced wife suddenly realised she has become empty and started raining abuses on her mother there at the court premises.  “You are a wicked mother; you have stripped me off my crown and glory. Now, I am empty, there is no husband and children with me anymore. Not that they died, your wrong advice is the reason I am naked now.” It took the intervention of passers-by to get the lady settled. News came afterwards that she became mentally deranged.   In the same vein, another mother led her handsome promising young son into several other undisclosed marriages because she insisted his first wife must be divorced?  Now, her son is a total specification of what the girls in town want; a broad-shouldered-dark-hunk if you ask me and there were no barriers anymore. All the road blocks around him have been removed. The wife who asks why coming home late is no longer there to checkmate; the children that crawls all over him are gone with their mummy. Mama is in her own home. The coast became very open, wide and clear. Before the end of that year, our friend has put two girls in a family way. None was ready for abortion, but wants to settle down in marriage especially now that the man has become single again. Information was rife that at the end of the day, he became a father of six children from four different women. The development became difficult to manage and he has not stopped blaming his mother for his woes.  In a like manner, a newly divorced South African lady cried out on social media when she was advising other young ladies not to listen to their families when they are going through marital challenges. “Whenever we have little misunderstanding, my family will ask me to come home, which I will gladly do. In three months I can run to my family up to four times, at each take off, my husband will come looking for the children and I. One of those times, when he came for us, I gave him a condition according to my mother’s counsel and insisted he must give me documents to the landed property he bought in the children’s name. He gave me, he asked if there is any other thing I needed, I took over his own car instead of mine. That was the last time I saw my husband. He confided in his friend who told us that he was willing to part with anything as far as I leave the house and never to come back. That was how I became stocked in my mother’s house with three young children and became the object of laughter. Even my own sisters make jest of me for not handling my marriage well. She then advised on Facebook and said… “Run to God on your knees, He has a perfect solution to all marital trial.” Again, the rate at which couples divorce themselves now is very alarming. Some beautiful marriages that are contracted end up within months, or years. What is the problem that is too big to handle? Is it that the fear of God no longer exists between couples? What about several religious teachings on divorce?  Are they being adhered to or ignored? What has happened to English words like patience, communication, endurance, positivity, humility, success and progress? Can’t they be pragmatic to lives and marriages? Has all these be thrown into the thin air and divorce given a front seat in your lives? What is good for the goose is equally good for the gander.  Admonition on divorce is not for a man or woman alone, the essence is for all to take stocks, communicate, adjust and turn a new leaf to avoid divorce. No divorcee has won any award for either of the couples. Now to couples, if you must complain about your spouse, go to his or her family not yours because when you forgive and forget, your family might not be on the same page with you in forgiveness.