This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From: Emma Njoku Oil and gas expert and governorship aspirant on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Anambra State, Engr. Bart Emeka Nwibe, has promised to change the narrative in governance in the state if elected as governor later this year. He said Governor Willy Obiano has not done enough to merit a second term in office. Nwibe, who spoke, in Lagos, on Wednesday, during an interactive session with newsmen, said he would bring a new perspective that would benefit the people of Anambra, in particular, and Ndigbo in general. Hear him, “It is time for people who can think outside the box and extract natural resources to help our people, to take over leadership roles. “Our country is in a mess largely due to leadership failure. I’ll offer a new perspective to the people of Anambra,” he said. Nwibe cautioned Anambra people not to be carried away by the shenanigans of some governorship aspirants whose only visible credential, he said, is “money”, stressing that it takes more than having money to govern a strategic State like Anambra. “I’ve realised politics provides the best platform through which one can effectively impact on his people. Some of us who have basic education are better  prepared for the challenges we’re facing in our country today. I started small business and have grown it to some heights. “The only credential some people who want to be governor of Anambra State have, is money. You need more than money to lead Ndigbo. We need men of ideas and experience to grow the Igbo economy,” he said. The APC governorship aspirant, though gave Governor Obiano pass mark, but said he (Obiano) has not done enough to merit a second term in office considering the record of achievements of his predecessor, Peter Obi. “Governor Willy Obiano has done well, but he has not lived up to the expectations of  Anambra people. Obiano’s administration is supposed to be Peter Obi’s third term, but we all know he has disappointed even political godfather. Our youths need jobs. We can create job opportunities through Orient Petroleum. Once we build a petrochemical plant, there’ll be jobs. Nwibe said if elected governor, he would give priority to energy, health and education sectors towards transforming the economy of Anambra State and, ultimately, that of Nigeria as a whole. “Anambra is strategic because it is the commercial hub of eastern part of the country. If we fix energy, health and education sectors in Anambra, we would have transformed the economy of Nigeria. We want to bring back our professionals abroad to come and help develop Nigeria,” he said.