This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Obinna Odogwu, Abakaliki Two hoodlums were, yesterday, apprehended in Idembia community in Ezza South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State by the members of the state Neighbourhood Watch while trying to blow up Idembia Bridge. The suspected criminals, it was gathered, had already planted the explosives and were about blowing it up before the local vigilante apprehended and handed them over to the army.   This was disclosed by the state governor, Chief David Umahi, during a press conference held in the Exco Chambers, Government House, Abakaliki. The governor said that the development was a confirmation of an earlier intelligence he got that plans had been concluded by undisclosed person to blow up bridges and hotels in the state. Umahi said: “A report came to me that a House of Assembly candidate went to a quarry site to buy explosives but the operators refused to sell to him and reported to us. “Four hours later, we got information that a meeting was held and it was agreed to plant explosives in hotels, in flyovers and bridges including bridges built by the past administration in the state. “While we were still examining the authenticity of the information, Commissioner for Internal Security called to say that the community and Neighbourhood Security Watch apprehended two people that had succeeded in planting explosives at Idembia Bridge but they had not detonated it,” he said. READ ALSO: Ahead Feb 16 elections, blood flows in Kaduna communities as gunmen kill 66 villagers Umahi also said that two House of Assembly candidates led political thugs who shot sporadically in the air for several hours in Ezza North council, holding the residents of the area hostage. “Two House of Reps candidates in Ezza North LGA were shooting guns. Incidentally, a police orderly attached to one of them participated in the shooting. The matter has been reported to the police to fish out the police orderly and he must be arrested. “The army arrested one of the candidates of a political party along the road with a short gun. Then in Ikwo, somebody was arrested with a gun for terrorising his community. Confirming the development, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, ASP Loveth Odah, said that such developments were expected but not of such nature. She said that investigations were ongoing even as security had been beefed up in the state. “The names of the suspects are Kingsley Nweke from Ishielu and Chijioke Uwakwe from Ikwo local government. “Investigation is still on to know why that should come up today that we are preparing for the 2019 election.