Chief Edwin Clark has described the attempt to appoint another interim administrator for the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC)  as an aberration that would be resisted. He called for the immediate reconstitution of the NDDC Board and publication of  the forensic audit report of the agency so that Nigerians could identify those complicit in its mismanagement. Clark flayed the situation where contract awards in the commission were based on notes from the Presidential Villa in Abuja and federal government agencies, saying the law establishing the commission had been tainted and discarded. He alleged that politicians have used the NNDC to enrich themselves, warning that “enough is enough” even as he urged President Buhari not to listen to selfish individuals who want to continue to milk the region dry. The elder statesman recalled that when President Muhammadu Buhari received the audit report in September 2021, he had promised to establish a substantive NDDC board, but lamented that nothing had happened after 10 months. “This is affecting the duties of the Commission, and the people of the Niger Delta region, because there is a limit to the things an Interim Administration can do. The yearning of the people of the Niger Delta region is for the Federal Government to constitute a substantive board. Any other agitation, especially from some greedy and self-centred persons, for Mr. President to appoint another interim administrator will be resisted. Because there are rumours of some persons making moves for the appointment of another interim administrator for the NDDC. If this is true, it will mean that it will be the fourth time an interim administrator will be appointed, in total neglect of the Act setting up the commission. This is an aberration. The people of the Niger Delta have been patient and understanding enough. My simple message to His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, is for him to constitute, without delay, a substantive Board for the NDDC, in line with the Act setting up the Commission. I also wish to add here that, now that the Forensic Audit is completed, and the White Paper out, the Report should be made public to enable Nigerians know those who are culpable.”