From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has raised the alarm over secret plot by terrorists who attacked Kuje custodial centre to eliminate its leader in the Department of State Service(DSS). According to a statement by spokesperson of the group, Emma Powerful, the Kuje prison was just a prelude plan by the terrorists group to orchestrate its plan to kill Kanu in his detention. The group has therefore warned the Federal Government of the grave danger of allowing its leader to be killed in detention, and added that it should be oblivious of the fact that Kanu has over 75 million supporters in the southeast. However, to avoid the looming danger, IPOB has advised that Kanu be handed over to the British government where he belonged or released unconditionally to the President General of Ohanaeze, professor George Obiozor or better still to the trusted hands of the elder statesman, chief Mbazuluike Amaechi. “The world should take note because if anything untoward happens to our leader Mazi Nnamdi (The leader of over 75 Million of fanatical lovers of Biafra freedom), in DSS custody nobody should blame IPOB for inevitable and uncontrollable boundless calamitous consequences that would befall to whom it may not concern. “Know it that your silence or accomplices hardens our conscience towards the pursuit of this great nation called Biafra. IPOB need unconditional release of our Leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu because there is no prison in the South that is safe for him, therefore we still need him released unconditionally to avoid dangerous terms IPOB may take against Nigeria. “There are many jail breaks in Nigeria since Buhari and his APC party took over power and nothing was done or checked out the cause of these prison breaks, the number of prison breaks was so alarming and therefore no country in the world experienced the kind of jail breaks in the history. “Therefore, we want them release Mazi Nnamdi KANU unconditionally because his life in the DSS custody is not safe and they will attack there and blame it on bandits and terrorists. “We urge the British Government to jettison pretense and direct Nigeria Government and to Release Mazi Nnamdi Kanu unconditionally or send back to UK where he lives, let him be return back to Amaechi Mbazuruike or professor George Obiozor for his safety.” Powerful stated.