From Tony Osauzo, Benin Residents of Ekehuan axis of Benin woke up, yesterday, to  behold a blockade of the Ekehuan-Ugbiyokho road which has been under construction for years by protesters who alleged the project has been abandoned by the state government. The action created difficulties and heavy vehicular traffic for those who ply the road to their different routes and locations. It was learnt the angry youths and women barricaded the road which terminates at the Kings Square (Ring Road) as early as 7am, thereby preventing transporters and passengers from plying the route to their destinations. The protesters said the bad portions of the road have led to hike in transport fares, brought hardships to motorists and the inhabitants of the area. One of them, Addison Ugiagbe, while speaking to newsmen, said: “Freedom doesn’t come on a platter of gold, it comes by struggle. I didn’t plan for this, I came to meet the road was blocked. “My kids didn’t go to schools. If anyone is being deprived of going to work or school, it is not intentional, it is for the betterment of the people. If the government had done the right thing, we will not meet the road barricaded by residents. Also speaking, another resident who would not want his name in print, said the barricade has prevented him from going to his workplace. “It is frustrating. I have been here for more than an hour now. As you can see, the road is blocked. Some drivers are already looking for alternative routes so they can get to their destinations. Reacting, Edo State Commissioner for Roads and Bridges, Newton Okojie, denied that the project has been abandoned, assuring the state government would complete the project as at when due. “I don’t know where they got the information that the project has been abandoned. Every project has a date of commencement and completion date. “It is not yet the end of that project and the contractor has not left the site. Activities at the site may have been reduced due to the rains but this does not mean abandonment and I don’t know where they got the information from or how they came to conclusion. “This government does not abandon projects. Such project cannot start this month and end the next. There is a lot of job that is being done and the people should exercise patient. The government will definitely complete the job it has started,” Okojie said.