Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, says Nigeria will have a national carrier before the end of 2022. Sirika said this at a two-day Africa Public Private Partnership Network (AP3N) Investment programme held in Abuja, yesterday. The programme was organised by the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission with the theme, “Financing Africa’s Infrastructure through Public Private Partnership (PPP).” Nigeria Air is the nation’s proposed national carrier which was unveiled at the Farnborough Air Show in the United Kingdom in July 2018. The minister, represented by Mr Akin Olateru, Commissioner and Chief Executive Officer, Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB), said the Air Transport License had been issued. “We have a team in place, the Air Transport License has been issued by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, and we are in the process of processing the Air Operator Certificate (AOC) which will lead to the start of the airline.  “When you are setting up an airline, there are five phases for the AOC process. “You need to bring in airplanes when you are in phase three. So in phases one and two, you do not need to bring an airplane but you need to have identified them.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. ” But because people do not understand the process in aviation, they see it as another business. But aviation has its peculiarities and strict guidelines in everything we do.” The panellist who discussed the topic “Transforming the Aviation Sector through Private Sector Participation” underscored the need for funding from private investment in the sector to ensure efficiency.  Managing Director, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, said funding was a critical function in the aviation sector for it to function optimally.  According to him, funding is the lifeblood, you can have all the technical skills but without funding, the sector cannot function.