“Dear Prof, it is good writing you now because God has done it again in our lives. My husband and I have been childless for over 16 years and doctors said I had no womb to carry a baby. We prayed to God for mercy and favour, all to no avail. When I read your column, I was amazed at the testimonies of others. I decided to call you and you instructed me to order your anointing oil and to pray with it. I thought it was a joke, as my husband has tried to solve this problem without getting any help from anybody. When we got the oil, we prayed with it. The first thing that I noticed after using it was my menses, which ceased for over 10 years. It came out with something that looked like a dead rat. That same month, I became pregnant. I had my baby on few months ago. I am glad to inform you that God gave us a baby boy. Still be praying for us. May God bless you, daddy.” – Mrs. Nkechi Okoro, nkechiokoro494@yahoo.com “Dear Prof, my friend that I gave a little part of that oil told me that a plot of land he has been trying to sell for over seven years and was told by an occult man that he would never sell it until he (occult man) buys it from him was miraculously sold after he had anointed the land for three days. According to him, the occult man wanted to buy the property from him for a peanuts but he refused and, since then, he has been attacking him and vowed that the land would never be sold unless he bought it; this continued until he got the oil from me, went to the land and anointed it. After two weeks, he sold the land and the occult man called him and apologized to him. He just called me now and I decided to email you. Your God is very great.” – Mr. Eze Egodi, eze_ego1@yahoo.ca Bathing in the river is a means of receiving solution to one’s problem and it is another way in which one is kept under the contact point of the devil and his forces. You may have at one time or the other in your life visited a ‘prophet’ for the solution of your problem and the said prophet finally takes you to a river to bath you. This is usually done for people, especially women, looking for the fruit of the womb or for other persons looking for security. There is a man now in Anambra State in Nigeria who does this often on people as a way of ministering solutions to their needs. I wish to tell you that your bathing in the river for this purpose is an indirect way of presenting you as a condemned human being and as ‘meat’ to the forces of darkness within the water spirit realm. In those days, there was a man, who is still operating his cult as a Christian church today. I knew him in the past. This man is hailed with various titles by his followers. A day came when he wanted to use some people’s destiny for something. When he was consulted, he brought the list of the names of the people he bathed in the river. Without delay, he submitted the names. And they were about 150 persons from different countries. They were all used for the purpose. I want to let you know that at any time a ‘man of God’ is taking you to a river to bathe you, you should know that your name is going on record and will be finally submitted to a higher master for invocation. The Bible said, “The thief cometh not but to steal and to kill and to destroy. I have come that they may have life and that they may have it more abundantly” (John 10:10). I will continue to expose the works and activities of evil men and women masquerading as servants of God in the world of men. As a matter of fact, so many agents of darkness have manifested in our world today operating as ministers of light. Some of them specialize in the exhumation of charms and armlets. There is a church I know that got its power from the water and occult kingdom. This church started like a non-denominational ministry that has metamorphosed to  a “Living Church” today. The founder is a woman and she claims to specialize in exhumation of charms. But this is a strong manipulation of the devil aimed at hoodwinking the congregation of Christ. One cannot serve God and Satan, nor use satanic power to please God. I recently ministered to a young lady who has suffered a lot from the hands of witches and who had also spent all her earnings on family liberation, yet her case was getting worse day by day. On a particular occasion, she took this woman that exhumes charms to her home. She succeeded in exhuming charms from her car and was able to exhume charms again from her bedroom. According to her, she was bamboozled to see the great woman of God use a shovel to open the ground in her bed room in order to bring out what she claimed was responsible for her suffering and lack of progress, despite the level of her education and well-paying job. Each time she got her salary, she did not know what happened to her money. Any money she brought home for domestic use usually disappeared. With huge salary, she still borrowed money before the end of any month. The surprising thing is that she is single and does not have any dependant nor does she spend on pleasures. The woman of God that specialized in charm exhumation went into her bedroom and was able to exhume charms and other substances like fresh tomatoes, head of a black dog, artificial hair, and cola-nut, to mention but a few. The exhumation was aimed at liberating the young lady from her sorrows. When she was talking to me, she asked me a serious question thus, “How could a fresh tomato be buried under the earth in my room for over seven years without my knowledge and did not also rotten?” The first thing I did was to laugh at her ignorance, because she did not know it was manipulation. In the first place, there were no tomatoes, dog head, or cola-nut buried for any reason; the aim was for financial extortion. The majority have ended up getting psychological healing from such centres, not just because there is true power in it. NO! The issue is that when they see things being exhumed from the ground, their mind will be set on immediate freedom from their problems. The projection of their mind in this regard will be empowered by some psychological force, which will in turn be greeted by momentary relief. This is more psychological than spiritual. Well, the point I am making here is that the young lady in whose house charms were exhumed did not get the solution to her problems, rather, she got her problems compounded. By the grace of God, when she contacted me on phone and inquired further on what to do in order to be truly freed from her long tormented problems, I introduced her to my anointing oil, which she used, and prayed with it. She finally anointed herself with it and things happened in her life. Her testimony will be published in this column by next week. She is completely free and has started to enjoy her faith in Christ now. God does not allow his children to suffer shame to the last at all. There are many ways through which agents of darkness put people in bondage. Some of them I have discussed in this column. For instance, facing the sun while praying is one of the ways Satan uses to keep a person under his bondage. A ‘prophet’ may instruct you to face the east or the sun while praying. This is very wrong because this is another way of submitting to, contacting and worshiping a spirit being in the sun planet called “VISVASVAN” or A hura Mazda. The moment this spirit is contacted through prayer, he subjectively invokes an element of darkness into you through the rays of the sun and that forms the contact point from where they (the forces of darkness) will begin to monitor and direct you.