From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri  War is raging in the Njamanze dynasty over who occupies the traditional stool of Owerri, Imo State. All has not been well with the exalted throne since the demise of the paramount ruler, Eze Emmanuel Njemanze, Ozuru Igbo VI, Owerri, on May 10, 2016. Although the festering crisis began before his death, many believed the internal wrangling orchestrated by a former governor added to the monarch’s woes while he grieved over the mysterious fire that razed his palace. The rift was compounded when he was suspended from the Imo State Council of Traditional Rulersby the Rochas Okorocha-led government, for openly supporting Eze Cletus Ilomuanya, Obi of Obinugwu, who the governor had dethroned over political squabbles. Government continued to torment the monarch when it imposed five traditional rulers on Owerri, thereby going completely against the norms and traditions of the people. Owerri has always ruled by one king since its inception. As if that was not enough, funeral rites for Eze Njemanze were yet to be concluded when government stirred the hornet’s nest by anointing Peter Njemanze to replace the deceased monarch. This did not go down well with the people. Although youths kicked, but they were held back by their elders. A member of the Njemanze dynasty, Bob Njemanze told Daily Sun how the problem started. He claimed that Amawom where the Njemanzes hailed from bluntly refused to part with their land at Area K, New Owerri, which the Okorocha administration had shown great interest in. The government made several attempts to occupy the land but Amawom people stood their ground. In fact, to ensure the land was not forcefully taken away from them, they had vigil there with their women, children and other relatives, thus indicating their collective rejection of the takeover of the land. He said their refusal for the Okorocha-led government to relocate the ancestral Eke-Ukwu Owerri Market to Egbeada, was another reason attributed for the ex-governor’s anger in balkanising the traditional stool of Owerri: “It was at this time we knew he was going to deal with us. First, he made sure he balkanised our ancient town, enthroning his own monarchs. But that wouldn’t have been a problem if the village heads were respected he just picked anybody that his name has to do with Eze. “Of course, it was not acceptable to us. The village heads have been there before his Ezes, there is no way they would oversee our village heads. Njemanze is the paramount ruler of Owerri and beyond. It’s not something anybody can wake up and handpick. The tradition of Owerri must be followed. “The House of Assembly was used to give staff of office to Peter. He is not the Ozuru Igbo. A proper selection must follow in accordance with the tradition of our people.” However, it was as if the prayers and cries of Owerri people got to their ancestors. Peter was sacked and evicted from the palace by the administration of Emeka Ihedioha that succeeded Okorocha. The new government handed the keys of the palace built for the dethroned monarch by Okorocha to Declan Njemanze, chairman of the Njemanze dynasty. It took a new dimension when Peter the state assembly to restore him to the throne. In his petition dated December 3, 2021, he said: “Please permit me to express my humble self and the ugly situation I found myself in the hands of the mentioned persons. “To my greatest dismay and agony, on September 18, 2019, I was observing a quiet moment with my family at about 5am when Jasper Ndubuaku in company of unknown hungry looking for battle men in company of my nephew and others numbering about 15 with dangerous weapons invaded my residence at Mann Street, Owerri, with intention to cause mayhem. “They forcibly chased me and my family out of the palace, with intention to kill me if I dare resist his quit order and that he was acting on an order. “At this point in time, I had no choice but to run for my dear life to avoid being killed. They acted in a commando way and looted all my properties in the house, they double-locked the palace and changed all keys available in the house.” The embattled monarch appealed to the Speaker to use his good offices to restore and return him to his palace. The house constituted a five-man ad-hoc committee comprised of Chyna Iwuanyanwu (Chairman), Arthur Egwim, Cyracus Okorocha, Emeka Nduka and Samuel Otuibe as members to investigate and report to it on February 15, 2022. However, the committee in its findings afterwards said Ndubuaku and Onyeagocha had no business with the land on which the state government built the palace. The house clarified that the palace was built for Peter Njemanze and not for any other person or purpose. The committee recommended that Peter Njamanze be returned to his palace and restored as the traditional ruler of Amawom. Bob Njemanze expressed his dissatisfaction with the manner the house conducted its findings. He insisted that those mentioned in the petition were not invited during its sitting. The youths were also provoked by the recommendations of the state assembly. They gave a 14-day ultimatum to the Njemanze dynasty to produce a crown prince to be installed Ozuruigbo of Owerri, not minding the submissions of the state legislature. This would be the third time the youths would be demanding for a crown prince for the community from the elders and stakeholders of the Njemanze dynasty. They vowed to set the palace on fire if Peter Njamanze continued to parade himself as the Ozuru Igbo. Daily Sun’s investigation revealed that the embattled monarch’s kinsmen were not ready to recognise him. Many of the natives inquired about the residence of Peter Njemanze by our reporter, said they would not accept him as their ruler. The gravity of situation was demonstrated when an elderly man who identified himself as Peter Njemanze’s elder brother told our reporter: “If you are looking for Peter, his house is over there. But if you’re looking for our Eze, his house is not there. “Okorocha cannot impose an Eze on us. It has to go through the right process. He is my junior brother I don’t have anything against him. We are not quarrelling but the truth must be told.” The said palace built by Okorocha was still under lock and key. This was despite the pronouncement by the House of Assembly ad-hoc committee that it should be returned to Peter. Chief Priest of Owerri, Kelechi Ejiogu, when contacted preferred to remain neutral on the brouhaha. He claimed he was still waiting for the warring parties to bring the matter before his shrine.