From Kenneth Udeh, Abuja Amidst Nigeria’s worrisome security challenges, Ambassador of Israel to Nigeria, Michael Freeman has disclosed the desire of his country to assist Nigeria fight the scourge of insecurity which is bedeviling different parts of the country. Mr. Freeman made the disclosure in Abuja on Thursday at the Aso-Villa residence of the Senate Chief Whip, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu where he and a few staff of the embassy were hosted to a private engagement/dinner organised by Kalu. Harping on intelligence gathering and training of Nigeria’s security personnel, the Israel Ambassador added that Israel will be relying on the Nigerian Government to specify other areas in which Nigeria would need assistance from Israel. In a brief Interaction with Saturday Sun, Freeman described Nigeria as an amazing country with enormous potential, emphasising that though he is only six months old in Nigeria, his country is willing to partner with Nigeria to improve its agricultural and technological sector. “I’ve been in the country for only six months and I’m beginning to learn and understand the wonderful country and people of Nigeria. We are looking to see where we can partner with Nigeria. Certainly on security issues, on agriculture and on technology. And we’re looking to see where but it’s for the government and for the people of Nigeria to point us in the direction where we can help them work together. “But as the senator said, certainly in areas of training and in areas of others we’ve been, we would be very interested in sharing best practice and sharing intelligence. We would certainly be interested in working together,” he said. In his initial remarks, the host, Senator Orji Kalu expressed the readiness of the Senate to support the collaboration between Israel and Nigeria to curb insecurity in the country in aspects of ammunition and training. Kalu maintained that Agriculture and Security are two key areas which Nigeria must tap from Israel, stating they are major aspects of Israel’s expertise. On legislative partnership the Abia-North Senator stated that the National Assembly will be open to accept legislative bills sponsored by foreign nationals including Israelis that will strengthen the ties of both countries. Said Kalu: “This ambassador is barely six months here. And we at the Senate will do everything possible to make sure the next appropriation will focus on Israel, and Israel will come over to give us important training in areas of security. “We are doing everything possible to maintain our relationship with the Israelis and then. You know? The Israeli history is a successful history. And if Nigeria can learn two things from the Israelis, which are security and agriculture, we shall make a lot of progress and we’ll go a long way. “I don’t want to talk too much about what Israelis can do. I have one of the agricultural companies that revolutionised Agriculture in the northern part of Nigeria in terms of equipment and all, “Sotadan Suki” used to be their chairman and I hope that we can find common ground with the Israeli companies.  The government and people should talk about two things –  agriculture and security. These are areas which the Israelis have a lot of expertise in. And I hope that the Federal Government of Nigeria, through all her agencies, should continue building partnerships with the Israelis.”