“Prof, someone gave me a cola-nut during a burial in my village and I ate it, and later testified to the good work of God on how I was freed through the use of your oil; something very strange happened in my in-law’s place last week. I went there with the remaining oil to pray for my father-in-law, who has been bedridden for years. After praying for him, I anointed him with the oil and left, this happened about 7pm, and at 3am (early morning) a mighty snake came out of his bedroom from nowhere and died. The same morning, my father-in-law stood up from the sick bed and became healed. Join us to thank God for this miracle, a man that had been sick for 10 years! God bless you sir,” – Bro Linus Dike, linusilka@yahoo.com “Dear Prof, I just want to thank God for the oil together with the prayers I received from you. The oil has greatly assisted me and my family so well. I have had miscarriages for over 16 years now and my husband thought I could not bear him a child. We had several problems about this and his people went and got him a wife who started having the same problem for five years now. We discovered that it was an ancestral curse. Much family deliverance sessions have been done, without any good result, until I ordered your oil last year and did the prayers as was instructed by you. I just had a baby boy five days ago and I am very happy and fulfilled now. May God bless you, sir.” – Sister Blessing Udah, fablinkslimited@yahoo.com (Repeated testimony) Here was a man who started the ministry as a true servant of God now ending as an agent of darkness. He has made money, name, gotten enough material things but his soul is on daily demand by the evil powers he sold it to. He is expected to die soon and I have ministered to him and, by the grace of God, the evil powers will never have power over his victory in Christ. He is presently anointing himself with my oil, which he will do for five weeks. I shall publish his testimony in due time. So many preachers have sold themselves into the hands of the enemy in one way or the other. As I was writing this, I received a call from one of my close friends whose wife visited a “pastor” who saw clearly what is happening in the secret and family life of my friend and offered cutting his body with blade in order to rub a demonic substance as solution to what he saw. Another person informed me that he took some prayer group to his house in the village, only for them to exhume buried charms prepared with fresh egg, some part of goat meat still bleeding, and fresh coin all of which have been inside the earth for over 15 years. Deception! Where in the Bible or during Christ’s ministry on earth did you hear of exhumation of charms? I shall expose the process involved in exhumation of charms and amulets in this column to enable the children of God be at alert. As Peter rebuked Simon, saying, “Thy money perish with thee…” and Simon demanded for prayer for his freedom, so shall all those involved in this manipulation be humbled by the true power of God and be set free from evil powers, Act 8:9-24. In continuation of the ongoing manipulation inherent in many religious centres in connection with false solution, so many souls are already carried into the abode of destruction. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. A man recently called me and informed me that he visited a native doctor for a solution to his problems and the native doctor applied some substance on his body and asked him to sleep in time to enable his healing to be effected completely. Consequently, the man did as was instructed. In his dream, he saw many things that amazed him and at about 5:30am he woke up from sleep and noticed an Arabic inscription on his left leg. Beginning from that day to the present moment his health condition became worse to the extent that he was patronizing healing homes for the solution to his problem. As he intensified his effort in search of solution, he started noticing a serious object crawling all over his body; this made him very uncomfortable. His encounter with the native doctor truly devastated his entire life and made his business a laughing stock. He started noticing a serious setback in his business to the extent that he was living a confused life not knowing whether to live or die. It was a serious attack against a man who only was seeking a solution for his problem. A few weeks ago, he read my column and enjoyed the testimonies. He consequently decided to try the anointing oil and when he used it for his prayer, the Lord revealed to him how the native doctor stole his blessings and buried same inside the earth. He kept praying and the Lord again opened his eyes and showed him what was done against his life. He used the oil and anointed his family house where the native doctor had buried some satanic materials. After anointing the house, the following day, the native doctor noticed the effect of the power of God through the anointing oil and was forced to expose his dirty activities against the brother. Today, the man is born again and all the evil plans thwarted, to the glory of God. The point I am making here is that people should be very careful who they meet for solution to their problems, for so many agents of the devil are here and there. When a shepherd has a separate timetable from that of God, he automatically becomes a worker of iniquity and the source of his inspiration and power becomes an abomination before the good Lord of creation. Today, we are witnessing a great deal of ministries who from time to time emphasize miracles. But what they do in turn is magic. God is the worker of miracles, while Satan and his agents, no matter the title they bear, are workers of iniquity. I truly want to inform my readers here that, through laying on of hands by agents of darkness who operate their occult centres as Christian churches, some have been initiated and contaminated by evil powers. They have also contacted so many demonic powers that have ruined them. In the same vein and through the laying on of hands, some real men of God (as is evident in Acts 19:6) have been used by God to heal and deliver so many souls. There are various ways by which agents of darkness can contaminate people. Contaminated palm kernel oil is one of the channels through which one can be contaminated by the powers of darkness. Some mothers use palm kernel oil given to them in a prayer house on their children. This immediately contaminates the child. It may be that you may have been given this kind of oil by an agent of darkness, something mixed with this oil to either rub or use in one way or the other, and you may receive your heart’s desire but be informed that this kind of kernel oil is used to introduce certain elements of darkness in your body. Whether you rub or drink it, it is used to form a contact point for evil spirits within you. The moment this is done, the very agent who gave it to you will be crowned in the spiritual realm for converting a ‘soul’. Therefore, I urge you to watch after your soul. Many of these agents of darkness are using candles and incense for spiritual assignments. Has anyone given you contaminated candles or incense or any other thing, contrary to the will of God, for prayers? Then know it that such one is an agent of darkness operating as a minister of righteousness. You may receive a solution from him but know that any prayer conducted for you with the use of either candles or incense is an indirect process of contaminating you and initiating you into the realm of blind witches where you can be enslaved and sacrificed at anytime and at their will. Whenever any prayer is made for you with the use of contaminated candles and incense, it means that you have sold yourself to spirits in the fire occult kingdom and in most cases during initiations in which one is instructed to dance round the fire. That is, fire sacrifices known in the Sanskrit parlance as Agni Yajna, those who are easily used for this sacrifice are those who have via wrong solution contaminated themselves through the use of both candles and incense. This results in untimely death.