From Uche Usim, Abuja ‘I’ll speak to you soon’. These were the last words of Dr Mohammed Sanusi Barkindo, the 28th Secretary General of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to journalists, who wanted to interview him on the sidelines of the ongoing Nigerian Oil and Gas Conference NOG holding in Abuja. But he never did as his tight schedule took him out of the International Conference Centre, the venue of the conference, soon after delivering his speech. READ ALSO: Breaking: OPEC outgoing Sec Gen is dead, NNPC GMD announces via Twitter Many were hoping to see him on Wednesday but the hopes were dashed as his death was announced at exactly 4:32am this morning (Wednesday) by Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPC), Mele Kyari, who said he died at about 11pm the previous night. Kyari described Barkindo’s death as a great loss to his immediate family, NNPC Nigeria, OPEC and the global energy community. Kyari tweeted: ”We lost our esteemed Dr Muhammad Sanusi Barkindo. He died at about 11pm yesterday 5th July 2022. Certainly a great loss to his immediate family, the NNPC, our country Nigeria, the OPEC and the global energy community. Burial arrangements will be announced shortly,” On various WhatsApp Groups for journalists, Barkindo’s death remained a rude shock as no one could ever have imagined it. He looked hale and hearty and was suave and soft as he delivered his speech on the podium. Thereafter, he visited some exhibition stands before leaving for other engagements. His sudden departure throws Nigeria and indeed the global oil and gas industry into deep mourning. He was a Nigerian politician born on April 20, 1959 (63 years) in Yola, Adamawa State. Since 1 August 2016, he has been the Secretary General of OPEC. He previously served as Acting Secretary General in 2006, where he represented Nigeria on OPEC’s Economic Commission Board during 1993–2008. He also led the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation during 2009–2010, and has headed Nigeria’s technical delegation to UN climate negotiations since 1991. Barkindo completed his bachelor’s degree in political science from Ahmadu Bello University (Zaria, Nigeria) in 1981 and Master of Business Administration degree from Washington University in 1991. Prior to MBA, in 1988 he earned a postgraduate diploma in Petroleum Economics from Oxford University. Also, he was awarded an honorary doctorate from Federal University of Technology Yola.