From Sola Ojo, Kaduna Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai, on Tuesday, charged employers against the rejection of Corps members posted to them by the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) warning that such would be against the spirit and noble intentions behind the establishment of the service scheme. The governor, who stated this at the official closing ceremonies of the 2022 batch ‘B’ (stream l) orientation course at the NYSC temporary orientation camp, Government College, Kurmi Mashi, Kaduna,, encouraged Corps employers to accept NYSC members posted to them and assist them to settle down as quickly as possible to serve the country. Represented by the Commissioner, Human Services and Social Development Hajiya Hafsat Mohammed-Baba, the governor reiterated the commitment of his administration to provide security and a conducive atmosphere for the Corps members and NYSC staff in the state. “Let me also reiterate that the Kaduna state government will continue to give the scheme necessary support towards the realization of its set goals in the state. “I want to assure you that my administration will do its best to provide a conducive environment for you to carry out your assignment to excel. “The State Government is equally passionate about the security of NYSC members and indeed all citizens of the state. The Government in collaboration with security agencies will do its best to ensure that you feel safe in the state “All employers of corps labour in the state are hereby encouraged to accept NYSC members posted to them and assist them to settle down as quickly as possible to serve the nation here in Kaduna State. Rejection of Corps members is against the spirit and noble intentions behind the establishment of the service scheme”, he said. Earlier, the Coordinator of the scheme in the state, Odoba Abel Oche enjoined Corps members not to forget the lessons they learnt in the course of orientation course ad serve as agents of development to be fully involved in all programmes and policies of the government that critically impact on the people. “I wish to advise you to accept your posting gladly and gracefully report and complete necessary documentation and settle down early at your designated places of primary assignment. “I urge you to do your best to integrate with members of your host community, understand and appreciate their culture and tradition as soon as you can and respect same. Endeavour to be modest in all your activities, be humble and most importantly be security conscious at all times. “Do everything possible to avoid arguments that could trigger violence and never meddle in the local politics of your host community. “As you go to your various host communities, shine your eyes and identify with their areas of need and come up with strategies of ameliorating their suffering by initiating and executing meaningful community development projects”, he charged them.