By Bimbola Oyesola Workers in the telecommunication industry have vowed to continue persistent industrial actions against MTN Nigeria, to enforce the company’s compliance to Nigeria’s labour law and industrial relation. The workers who shut down the operation at the headquarters of the communication giant, MTN Nigeria over what they described as sharp practices by the company said the action would be sustained. The workers under the umbrella of Private Telecommunications and Communications Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PTECSSAN) said, the association have severally resisted the temptation of embarking on any form of industrial action against the interests of MTN Nigeria PLC. This according to PTECSSAN’s President Opeyemi Tomori was owing to series of interventions by the Ministry of Labour and Employment, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Federal Bureau of Investigation of the Nigeria Police Force and the Department of State Services, noting that attitude of the company left them with no option other than to embark on the protest action. He said they have come to the realization that if persistent industrial actions is not taking on MTN Nigeria, the company will not permit its staff to fulfil their right to freedom of association and also not yield to the legitimate demands of its employees as put forward by the union. Tomori noted that MTN Nigeria has resisted its workers, rights to freedom of association, organise and collective bargaining. He reiterated that, the company performance implementation plan is not only unclear to the employees, but a ruse to victimise them. “Despite generating at least a third of Nigeria’s national budget, MTN Nigeria sees payment of befitting exit benefits as taboo as the management pays exit packages to its management staff but refused to do same to the lower cadre,” he stated. He added that all exited and sacked management staff have all been paid humongous exit packages but frowns at the lower cadre mentioning it. He revealed that, MTN prides itself as IIP-investor in people- certified and the management staff enjoy $15, 000 as lifestyle benefit yearly but cannot replicate same for the lower cadre even if it is minute. The labour leader maintained that PTECSSAN have notified the public that they shall be persistent with their industrial actions on MTN until the company yield to their demands Adding her voice at the picketing rally, the NLC chairperson in Lagos State, Agnes Sessi said the union was present in order to show solidarity and also  ensure that the fundamental right of the workers is not trampled upon.  “This action is long over due as long rope has been given to MTN thinking that they will do the needful but since they are adamant in ensuring that the rules of law takes it place,  we are here so that Nigerians will not serve as slave in their fathers land,” she stated. She lamented that workers in MTN Nigeria are treated as if they are not human beings and the company makes a huge amount of money and even declares surplus. She added that to whom much is given, much is expected, but that is not the case of workers in MTN Nigeria as their welfare package is very poor and their remuneration is not equal to their labour. She decried that workers in the company does not have a lifeline package as seventy percent of workers are casual if not more. She said this implies no matter the length of years a worker serve in the  company, such worker will go home empty handed after retrenchment. “Our advice to the management of MTN is to allow the workers to unionise and also follow rules of engagement in doing business in Nigeria,” she stressed.