This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Barely a week after winning the 2016 Euromoney “Best Bank Transformation” Award in London, Access Bank Plc, has again received an award for the “Outstanding Business Sustainability” in the 2016 Karlsruhe Sustainable Finance Awards in Germany. This award, presented to the bank in Karlsruhe, Germany’s most sustainable city, recognises the bank’s outstanding success in incorporating economic, social and environmental aspects into its corporate strategy and business processes. The prestigious award was conferred to Access Bank, the first African financial institution to win the award in recognition of the bank’s ability to holistically embed sustainability across the financial institution. The award ceremony was attended by Global CEOs, senior executives of winning institutions and top German government officials. Speaking at the presentation ceremony Herbert Wigwe, Group Managing Director/CEO of the bank said, “Winning the Outstanding Business Sustainability Achievement Award is a validation of Access Bank’s commitment, leadership and practice in Sustainability. For this, I would like to thank the board, management and staff of the bank. We are delighted to be presented with this highly coveted award. It is a testimonial to the unwavering support we have enjoyed from customers over the past few years and the hard work we have done in line with our five-year strategy to become the world’s most respected African Bank ’’ “At Access Bank, we believe our operations, loan and project finance must have the barest environmental footprint. Indeed, we believe the net impact of our activities must be positive on the environment. As such, we are champions of climate change mitigation and adaptation” he added. He assured that the bank will be further motivated and maintain profitable growth while embracing sustainability. The conveners said the 2016 awards focused on honouring organisations that have made outstanding contributions in the field of sustainable finance, stimulated the interests of financial institutions and other stakeholders in integrating sustainability in their core business strategy. It also recognises candidates who promote growth of sustainable financial instruments and markets worldwide particularly in the fields of green finance and investments, financial inclusion and social finance, green equity and holistic integration of sustainability in the financial services institutions.