By Brown Chimezie The National Ethnic Nationalities Youth Leaders’Council (NENYLC) has condemned Bola Tinubu’s choice of Hashim Shettima as running mate. National Organising Secretary of the group, Okwu Nnabuike, at a press briefing in Enugu, said the move was against the law of natural justice. He said everything must be done by Nigerians to stop the APC from destroying the country. Nnabuike said the level of killings and violence targeted at Christians under the present administration was unprecedented and expressed concern that the Christian community would become a totally endangered specie under the Muslim-Muslim presidency. He said Tinubu’s decision was an insult on millions of Christians in the country as no religion had precedence over the other. “Today, we have deemed it fit to alert Nigerians of a looming danger ahead of the 2023 general election. This is following Tinubu’s decision to opt for a Muslim-Muslim ticket, despite obvious reasons he should not go such a route. “This is totally unacceptable and should be rejected by anyone who means well for the country. “In 2014, Tinubu made efforts to force Muslim-Muslim ticket on President Muhammadu Buhari, but the president resisted it by listening to the wise counsel of people like former Senate president, Bukola Saraki. He balanced the ticket. “Fast forward to seven years after, Tinubu now desperately wants to actualise a Muslim-Muslim presidency. There is more to this than meets the eyes. “We see this as a grand conspiracy to sink Nigeria. How can anyone contemplate this arrangement in a multi-ethnic and multi-religious society like Nigeria? “APC should forget 2023, they have shot themselves on the foot, we can’t allow them to destroy Nigeria. They lost the opportunity to compete very well in the forthcoming election. Nigerians, Christians and Muslim brothers who mean well for the country should rise and resist it to the last, it will never fly. “The country has never been this polarised and every sensitive person should have been concerned with processes that would engender national cohesion and unity but what we have seen from APC’s Tinubu is a further division of the country.”