For every leader there is always a time of reckoning. It doesn’t matter if they know this much or not, it will happen. Some of our leaders ascend to power and begin to act as if there won’t be an end. Not long after, events around them begin to tell them the inevitable, that the only thing permanent on earth is change. Even when anyone tries to resist, nature has a way to take its course. Some of us, and we are many, do often wish our leaders know this fact before they get into public offices and in fact internalize them in their hearts. If they did, it definitely would affect their attitude in a very positive way and what they do while in power. Many of them won›t end in the miserable manner they do. When the season of reckoning begins to appear, one thing we get to see is that every human cares the way the public views him or her. Forget the braggadisio they put up, inside the hearts of these leaders, none wants to turn out bad, they earnestly desire approval. That is exact reason they begin to explain away obstacles they confronted and what they think their legacies are, and then listen with some degree of intensity to ascertain if what they pass on resonates with the public. They become really concerned, some to the point of being agitated. Few days ago Governor Nyesom Wike began reconstituting his cabinet, while doing so he told them to begin to prepare their ministries handover notes, saying, “I want to give my successor full account of all I did.” President Muhammadu Buhari has been doing same. While celebrating the recent Muslim festival in his country home, Daura in Katsina State, few days ago he told his guests: “When my tenure is over,  I will return to Daura. I have a house in Kaduna but I will prefer to stay in Daura.” At another occasion he revealed his intention to continue to engage in farming, adding, “I have given our country my best.” It was a one sided communication, he spoke but got no answers. I am sure he would have been very delighted to have a talk back, because leaders need appraisals. In another instance he told the nation, «I am anxiously waiting for my time as President to be over so that I can go.» You hear that and you think he didn›t enjoy the tenure while it lasted. Truth is he enjoyed it but the day of reckoning has come, and has done so with the dawning of the reality that what has a beginning must have an end. When it has to do with power and public office, «judgment» follows. Buhari is very concerned about the people’s judgment and the verdict of history. Keen watchers of our polity know that it was in this light that the Emir of  Daura told him, “Let nothing bother you at all, you have done very well. Nigerians will appreciate you the more after your tenure in power. They have harsh words for every leader even your successor won’t be speared.” Consoling words. Whether the Emir is right is a different matter. Truth is, great leaders whose actions meet subjects› expectations would be hailed while even in power. We have had some in our country. Muritala Muhammad in spite of his many atrocities before he became Head of State received wide acclaimation within months he was in power. Michael Okpara, one time Premier of Eastern Region was hailed both at home and abroad while he was still in office. The developed world marveled at how he achieved the world’s fastest growing economy at his time in the sixties. The outing today is not essentially about the Buhari years. When it is time perhaps before the campaigns start in September or better still by January next year, it will be done in a more scientific manner, taking it sector by sector with relevant statistics and clear examples to buttress each position. Nevertheless, the outcome of Osun gubernatorial election held last weekend affords some us opportunity to offer words in salutation to President Buhari for an aspect of his work to the country done very well. Our electoral process has attained far higher levels of credibility under the Buhari administration. No argument whatsoever about this. Beginning from Anambra election that brought Chukwuma Soludo to power. Everyone thought the atmosphere for holding the poll wasn’t just there. Truth is that many felt a constitutional crisis was in the offing yet the Federal Government put up a determination that was unparalleled and moved in with every seriousness. It was in that election that the new improved biometric machine was put to use and it worked “magic”. Next was the election into local governments in the Federal Capital Territory and the process was great. Ekiti and Osun followed in that order and Nigerians are pleased with the government’s efforts to reignite the citizens interest in the electoral process. Yes, the entry of Peter Obi in the presidential race has to some extent attracted the interest of the young population but more than everything the increasing credibility of recent polls has made the people see the importance of voting in changing leaders hence the massive desire to register and vote. This is a positive signal and Buhari should receive some commendation for this. It can’t be critical reviews all the time. Infrastructure-wise his administration has posted very impressive performance. I ply mostly the Enugu-PortHarcourt expressway, the Buhari regime has really done so much in a good attempt to change the status of South East as the zone with the worst network of roads. Under the People›s Democratic Party (PDP) era the rehabilitation effort wasn›t detailed and it was a case of half a mile for five years. Every festive season the caterpillars came and disappeared with the speed of light once visitors to region left with the end of the the ceremonies. It was most painful when one realized the area stuck out its neck for PDP, the party that was in power then at the centre. As I have already said, this outing is not a treatise on the Buhari Administration, that may be done when the campaigns start but I take liberty to say Buhari as President would have emerged the best our country ever had if his “orientation” was right. The citizens have left out the usefulness of his near spartan lifestyle, yet it is a quality we badly need. There is need to cut exhibitionist conduct in power. It is irresponsible aura of emperor mentality that has been very inimical to democratic growth.  Terrible political culture is at the root of poor development of the country, any redemptive efforts must begin from the politics. Many have made so much issue about economic development and abundance as precursor to political stability and growth. The truth is that sound political philosophy and structure are what will drive economic emancipation. If the polity is bereft of sound foundation, vision would be impossible and the natural consequence would be rudderlessness, tension and infighting that must follow. Buhari’s worldview is narrow.    He brought this to the job and as it seems it turned out too costly for him and his administration. His loquacious and overbearing aides have suddenly gone quiet indicative of having a better understanding of what ought to have been but wasn›t. Like I already observed in earlier parts of this discourse, the President is now worried about the verdict of history. This disposition ought to be there from the very beginning. When leaders have the fear of history, the higher probability is that it will be a motivator to do things right, quicker and far better. Buhari still has time to increase his value.   If I were him I would push on with the laudable to extensively improve the electoral process, commence a process for national unity, bring in South East into the security command, hold all political parties summit, talk and act national. If only for three months he walks this outlined path, to achieve those goals, he definitely will win some more friends.