The Agro-Climatic Resilience Semi-Arid Landscapes team (ACReSAL) in Kwara has called for the enhancement and sustainability of agricultural and reafforestation activities in Lafiagi, Edu Local Government Area of the state, and its environs. Mrs Okanlawon Taiwo, the Communications Officer of ACReSAL, made the appeal in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Ilorin. Taiwo said that the call was necessary in order to promote the eco growth and development for sustainable value and socio-economic potentialities in the communities. She said that the state Project Coordinator, Mr Zubair Oloruntoyin, in company of the Kwara Senior Special Adviser on Water Resources, Mr Shehu Usman, said this in Lafiagi during an assessment tour. “Oloruntoyin stressed that with the awareness of the negative effects of desert encroachment, global warming and deliberate deforestation causing havoc on the community, ACReSAL Project leveraged on its multi sectorial outlook. “This is by harmonising the concepts of environment, water and agricultural remedies to mitigation of land depredations to proffer sustainability and effectiveness to applied interventions. “Engr. Tunde talked on the extent of the Egua water flow in the area, that the project tagged with water sheds will prompt the need to identify the watersheds,” she said. She added that it also involved the devastating effects on the community and considered possible solutions to mitigating same, coupled with appropriate investments on the recovered areas. “The engineer emphasised that it will enhance land reclamation, investment on the redeemed land, thereby improve the living standards of the people through creation of job opportunities, food security and other social amenities. “He explained that the extent of the proposed irrigation scheme will be dependent on the needs assessments, based on its intended purposes which could be for agriculture, domestic and industrial uses.” Oloruntoyin affirmed that Lafiagi community is blessed with enough farm land, water and land resources which could generate more economic values for the state. He lauded Gov. AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq’s administration for keying into the multi-sectorial project for the benefit of state, making Lafiagi community one of the beneficiaries of the project. Taiwo also said that the Emir of Lafiagi, Alhaji Mohammed Kudu Kawu, appreciated the team for the assessment visit and emphasised the need for farm irrigation, securing the river banks, as well as harnessing their water for irrigation purposes. He said that planting of economical trees as well as other major issues beg for adequate attention in the community. The Emir said that the community has so much passion for economic development, so it focus more on planting of economical trees, other resourceful plants and making sure that the environmental proceedings are observed. He appreciated the state government and the agency for coming to their aid, for prompt intervention in addressing the environmental challenges in community. (NAN)