By Gilbert Ekezie The Labour Party House of Representatives candidate for Amuwo Odofin Constituency,  Lagos State in the 2023 election, Mr Augustine Ejike Metu (Metusela), has described the presidential candidate of Labour Party, Mr Peter Obi, as a bridge between the old and new generations, saying that he has offered himself to reconstruct Nigeria. He also spoke about his ambition to represent his constituency in the House of Representatives and why he left the PDP for Labour Party. Except: You are a strong foundation member of the PDP and had been with the party until recently when you left for Labour Party, what transpired? Well, it was as s resultant effect of the decision taken by the party during the recent primary election. You know, there are consequences in every decision taken, either good or bad. During the primaries, PDP delegates took the decision of returning the incumbent who has already served for eight years. By simple implication, they are telling us that we are only good at voting and not to be voted for. So, they made their decision and I made  mine too by leaving the party. There is a saying that ‘if snake does not behave like a snake, children will use it to tie firewood.’ It is unfortunate that as a loyal party member since 1998 till recently, about 33 people felt we have not done anything and decided to do what they wanted, even if it is for the interest of the party or not. What touched me most was when they claimed that the incumbent is the only person who can win election for them in the constituency. That is a falacy of the highest order. We worked as a team; united, committed and loyal, but now they are telling me that I am nobody. I agree that we are one in Amuwo Odofin, but that oneness cannot be that of a graveyard. You see,  I continue to say  that oneness in one person’s stomach, is not it. When it enters your stomach, let it enter another person’s own. I will not agree for the oneness we claim, continues to be in only one person’s stomach. So, I had to make move to the Labour Party. Was there really a PDP primary election for the House of Representatives in Amuwo Odofin? At a time, there was an election they claimed they had, and the much I know, that election was cancelled and I think there was no other election held to that effect thereafter. But then, I  have taken my destiny in my hands, I am no longer there to know what happened to them. How do you see the Labour Party? I joined Labour Party when the silence was deepening. I would not know what happened because I have not been there. But after 48 hours I joined the party, the wild mass movement started, I looked back and said ‘this can only be God who ordered my steps into the party before the  mass movement.’ Why did you choose Labour Party, instead of APGA that is viewed to be more popular and dominated by the Igbo? Politically, I would not want to be narrowed down to be an Igbo man, but a Nigerian. Agreed , I am of Igbo extraction,  but I am not playing politics on Igbo sentiment. Besides, you cannot rule out the sentiment, no matter which way you might look at it. I will not rightly say it was my decision to join Labour Party, rather, it was God’s intervention. If it were my decision, I think, I would have joined another party, but, I am in the party today because God has ordained it to be so. Do you regret moving to Labour Party? Not at all, I am happy and confident  of victory  because I have paid my dues in Amuwo Odofin politics. For me, it is forward ever and backward never.  We are moving forward, there is no retreat, no surrender. Labour Party is the beautiful bride, and we are doing everything we can to put the structure in place. Sometimes, one has to take his destiny in his hands, so I had to move for us to meet at Philippi. In what way are you setting the Labour Party structures in place? We are really mobilizing Nigerians at the moment and by the grace of God, many are queing into our vision of reconstructing the country. With what we are seeing now, every phone in someone’s hand is a structure on it’s own, depending on how the person uses it. Old ways of doing things are really passing away. 2023 election is going to bring in something new and different. People are seeing Labour Party as a Third Force in the Nigerian political system , do you concour? I believe that. Labour Party is a new beautiful bride. When we talk about Third Force, the way the party is going with mass movement and support, it is bringing a real change in Nigeria. What do you have in mind to do for the people of Amuwo Odofin if you are given the opportunity to serve? Well, I am offering myself for a responsive, responsible representation. Among the 3Rs, responsive means that I must be at alert to whatever that comes to my constituents, responsible entails that I will bring back what belongs to the people and ensure that it gets to them. One thing is bringing back what belongs to the people, another is giving it to them. When the people send someone to represent them, automatically, they have empowered the person. But, I am surprised to hear when some representatives of the people  get what belongs to their constituents and give to them, they will  be boasting that they have empowered the people. I continue to say that any representative of the people who does not bring back to the people what belongs to them, is worse than an armed robber. This is because whatever the person is getting there is not his or her own, but for the people. Could you assess the compliance of the ongoing voter registration exercise? Sincerely, I am impressed on the exercise. I am also satisfied to see the media onslaught on PVC collection by Nigerians, the ingenuity of the youths and how they are now bringing in their brains to work. Today, if you go to social media, you will see how creative our youths are. With the look of things, there will no longer be dull moment. People are now questioning rightly and are following it up. The slogan everywhere today is ‘Get your PVC.’ It is so serious that who ever that does not have PVC is viewed in a different way. So, as far as one is of age, the person should go and get PVC in order to qualify to vote for the right candidates during the election. I am optimistic that God is about to do something in Nigeria. Do you think that the votes will count more this time around? Obviously, the votes will count this time around. With the new electoral law, it is not going to be business as usual. So, those hatching the plan of electoral malpractices should forget it because this time, Nigerians will come out en masse to vote and at the same time, protect their votes, as never done before. How would you describe the Labour Party’s presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi? Well, I do not know what to say that will be final. However, I will say that Mr Peter Obi is a bridge between the old and new generations. He is a slate that is open for everybody to see. Mark my words, he is not an angel, but within the scope of a human being, he is the best we have among other candidates for the presidential seat. In fact, if we are in a society that does a diligent search, delegates should have been sent to Peter Obi to come and help reconstruct Nigeria. For him to offer himself to serve , he is not doing so because he does not have what to do. His interest is to help save Nigeria, and I am optimistic that he will not disappoint Nigerians if given the mantle of leadership. He did well as governor of Anambra State and will do better as president of Nigeria. What advice do you have for Nigerians at this moment? As people are jostling to clinch one political position or the other, what should be the focus of Nigerians is to know what they are bringing to the people, especially the presidential candidates. If they are coming to fulfill their personal life ambitions, good for them, but Nigerians should ask them questions and anyone who is not able to provide  good answers, should be bid bye, because Nigerians are tired of the selfish interest leadership. With what is happening in the country today, we all could see that we do not need to vote on sentiment. Who the country needs now is a vibrant person who can work on the economy for the betterment of all. And, if we look at all the presidential candidates, we point at the person who has the best track record. So, they should vote wisely, and not be deceived any longer. Can you also advise the people of Amuwo Odofin Local Government Area? My advice is that they should wake up to change the narratives this time by knowing who they need as their leader. They should get their PVCs and vote massively during the election. Days were gone when people said the issue of voting does not concern them. Everyone should be part of it to bring the desired change. Labour Party is the new bride and its candidates have good plans for the people.