To the perceptive observers, they will tell you that the suave billionaire business mogul, Akanimo Asuquo Udofia is not a neophyte when it comes to politics and its intricacies. His influence in Nigeria’s political and business circuit looms large in the nation’s psyche. Many see in Akanimo, a robust renaissance man with huge and wide political contacts who can push and reenergize the people to begin to see the possibilities that surround them in Akwa Ibom. The man fondly called Akan has brought in the needed colour and vigour into the Akwa Ibom political space. He has blurred party lines and finally made the people see things more clearly instead of the jaundiced ways they have been seeing it as a monolithic party state. Today, he is the issue in Akwa Ibom. Akan’s name and colouration is the vending tool for all frontline thinkers in the state. But this Affa Offiong, Akwa Ibom State-born oil magnate’s invincibility and influence are presently being tested in the political game ongoing in his home state. Akan emerged the All Progressives Congress Governorship candidate for Akwa-Ibom through a primary by a particular faction of the party in the state. However, the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, has looked elsewhere and denied recognition to the primary that produced the suave billionaire. The action of the electoral umpire has dimmed the elation that greeted Akan’s candidacy among millions of those who truly love and desire the leadership of this man of immense means, and thus places his fate in the balance. Meanwhile, Akan has reinforced the fact that he is a force of nature. So, he is all shades of solid. As a national and internationally known recognized figure, the 53-year billionaire is versed in the art of putting money to personal good use and to the benefit of humanity. Looking at his past and current development drive and economic pursuits and connections within the state, across the country and the world at large, they believe there cannot be any encumbrances. All they want is to have Akan on the ballot come 2023.