From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan The Chief Judge of Oyo State, Justice Munta Abimbola, has constituted a seven-man investigative panel on the allegations levelled against the deputy governor of the state, Rauf Olaniyan, by the Oyo State House of Assembly. The legislature had directed the Chief Judge to set up the panel on June 6, 2022, and the panel was eventually constituted on July 14. Justice Ladiran Akintola of the Oyo State High Court had delivered judgment on the case on Thursday. However, Abimbola set up the panel after the case has been decided. The case was dismissed and the court validated the impeachment procedure initiated by the legislature. A statement by the court’s Information Officer, Mrs Comfort Udoh, stated that the panel was set up “pursuant to the resolution of the House of Assembly of Oyo State, and as requested by the Honourable Speaker of the House, Adebo Ogundoyin by a letter dated 6th July, 2022, and by the virtue of  power conferred on his lordship by Section 188 (5) of the 1999 Constitution of Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The delay in the inauguration of the members of the panel of investigation was due to the pending suit against the impeachment of the Deputy Governor of Oyo State, which judgement was delivered yesterday (Thursday), 14th July, 2022 by Hon. Justice A.L. Akintola, who dismissed the claim of the deputy governor. “After various consultation with communities in the state, such as Muslim community, Christian community, Justice of peace (JP) and legal profession, Chief Kayode Christopher (chairman), Arc. Adebisi Soyombo, Chief Lawal Adekunle Dauda, Princess Olanike Olusegun, Rev Fr. Patrick Ademola, Chief Mrs Wuraola Adepoju (JP), Alh. Tirimisiyu Akewusola Badmus, having being found worthy to be men of unquestionable integrity, not being members of any public service, legislative house or political parties have been constituted to investigate the allegations against the deputy governor as provided under section 188(5) of the constitution of Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The Chief Judge therefore urged members to have the fear of God and act in accordance with their conscience and to be fair and just in the discharge of their duties. The Chief Judge prays for God’s Guidance.” The lead counsel to the deputy governor, Chief Afolabi Fashanu (SAN), had on Thursday told journalists that he has filed a notice of appeal and application for stay of execution of the judgment delivered by the lower court. The appeal was filed in less than one hour after the judgment was delivered. He was optimistic that the Chief Judge would not go ahead to set up a panel as directed by the legislature on Thursday July 6, 2022, based on the notice of appeal and application for the stay of execution.