From Charity Nwakaudu, Abuja The presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has been cautioned against any plan to drop Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as his running mate. There are speculations that Atiku is facing pressures from governors to drop Okowa and replace him with his Rivers State counterpart, Nyesom Wike. Wike loyalists are also said to be making the same demand as the only way to make room for peace in the party. In a statement made available to reporters on Tuesday by the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide (OYC), Atiku was warned not to drop Okowa. The statement signed by the National President of OYC, Mazi Okwu Nnabuike, and the Secretary, Obinna Achionye, indicated that any attempt to replace Okowa would backfire. The apex Igbo organisation said the South East would not accept losing out completely in the scheme of things, having lost the opportunity to produce the presidential candidate of either the PDP or the All Progressives Congress (APC). “There is no need to repeat that we expected both the PDP and the APC to zone their presidential tickets to the South East, but that did not happen. “Though this has been overtaken by events, the only consolation we have is the choice of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as running mate to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, considering that Okowa is a true Igbo son. “Having said this, how could anyone wake up and think of replacing Okowa with Wike? As much as we know that Atiku reserves the right to choose whoever he wills as his running mate, we also have the right to vote according to our desire. “And that desire is clear- that the PDP would not get one vote from Igbo land should they field Wike because this is a man who disowned Ndigbo. He said he is not one of us and this is payback time, we also do not know him. Should the PDP make the mistake of pairing him with Atiku, the PDP will be roundly rejected during the presidential election,” the Ohanaeze youths warned. The OYC added that “with the new Electoral Act, those who constituted themselves into emperors are going to be disgraced during the polls. The time for bogus fake results is over, so nobody should be deceived.”