From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja and Gyang Bere, Jos President Muhammadu Buhari, governors, Senate Chief Whip, Orji Uzor Kalu and stakeholders in the petroleum sector, yesterday, mourned the passage of Mohammed Sanusi Barkindo, secretary-general of Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and former Group Managing Director of the NNPC. Barkindo reportedly died on Tuesday night in Abuja, same day he visited President Buhari to brief him on his tenure that is about to end at OPEC. The president  in a statement by his  Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, describing Barkindo as an enormous national asset and a remarkable gentleman, who from his youthful days worked meritoriously in the service of the nation in various national and international capacities, and never stopped being a beacon of light to the country he loved until his last breath. He affirmed that Barkindo’s undeniable brilliance and legacies as a dedicated public servant would  remain a reference point in the oil and gas industry, international development and the environment sector. The President conveyed his deepest condolences to Barkindo family, colleagues at OPEC, as well as the government and people of Adamawa State. He prayed God almighty to grant repose to the soul of the departed and comfort to all who mourn. Chairman of the Northern Governors Forum and Governor of Plateau State, Simon Bako Lalong in a statement in Jos, said the death of Barkindo was a great loss to his immediate family, Nigeria and the international community because of his contributions to the energy sector and development of oil and gas in Nigeria and throughout the world. He said Barkindo gave a good account of himself when he was elected Secretary General of OPEC as he led the organisation through some of the most challenging periods in global energy crisis and the COVID-19 Pandemic by ensuring recovery and stability.  Lalong said the Northern Governors Forum was proud of his achievements and support towards the passage of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), and exploration of oil and gas prospects across various parts of the country, including the Northern Region. While commiserating with the family and people of Adamawa State, Lalong prayed God to grant his soul eternal rest and comfort the family.  Also, former governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Kalu described the demise of the Dr.Mohammed Barkindo as a huge loss to Nigeria. Kalu while acknowledging his remarkable contributions to the oil and gas industry across the globe, stressed that the deceased was an accomplished professional in the oil and gas industry, adding that his leadership qualities stood him out among his contemporaries. The former governor commiserated with the government and people of Adamawa state and stakeholders in the oil and gas industry, noting that the good deeds of the deceased cannot be forgotten. In a condolence message, Kalu urged the Barkindo family to sustain the worthy legacies of the deceased. He said: “I received with sadness the news of the passing of the Secretary General of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), Dr. Mohammed Barkindo. The deceased was an accomplished Nigerian, who served in various capacities in the oil and gas industry at the national and international levels. He played remarkable roles in promoting good relationship between OPEC and non-OPEC members. The late Barkindo carved a niche for himself in various endeavours. The deceased left behind good legacies for his family to uphold.” Kalu prayed to Allah to forgive the shortcomings of Barkindo and grant him Al-Jannah Firdaus. In the same vein, Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State described the death Barkindo as shocking and devastating. The governor said Barkindo died when his services are still required in the country because of his vast knowledge in private and public administration as well as in the oil and gas industry. He commiserated with his immediate and extended family, friends and associates on Barkindo’s death and prayed God to grant them the grace and fortitude to bear the unexpected loss. The governor also prayed God to grant the soul of the deceased a peaceful repose.