The recent granting of amnesty to repentant bandits in Imo State by Governor Hope Uzodimma is a major step towards tackling the insecurity in some parts of the state, especially in communities in Orlu Senatorial District. The governor had last week in Owerri offered a 10-day grace period to bandits operating in some forests in the state to surrender themselves and their arms to their traditional rulers and embrace peace. While ruling out the extension of the grace period, the governor warned that those who refused to accept the peace overture would be decimated. The governor gave assurance that the government was poised to rid the state of bandits with the expected equipment and additional recruitment of more personnel of Ebube-Agu, who will work in concert with other security agencies in the state. He pointed out that the envisaged collaboration would also rid the state of crude oil theft. Apart from the deployment of kinetic measures to achieve peace in the state, this is the second time the governor is extending the olive branch to the bandits in the state. In May, the governor set up a committee on security that will organise a stakeholders’ conference between August 11 and August 12 and come up with measures to curb insecurity in the state. Governor Uzodimma’s new gesture to the bandits is commendable. In recent times, the insecurity in Imo State has risen to an alarming proportion. That is why residents in the affected areas are living in a state of perpetual fear. The recurring killing of people and destruction of property in the state by non-state actors cannot be allowed to continue indefinitely. The incident has paralysed business activities in the affected areas of the state. It is sad that some people are leaving their ancestral homes for fear of being attacked, kidnapped or killed by the armed gangs. Many security operatives had been killed in some of the heinous attacks. In 2021, unknown gunmen invaded the Owerri Correctional Centre and set free not less than 1,870 inmates. They also set ablaze some buildings and vehicles during the operation.  The Imo State Police Command Headquarters, Owerri, was also attacked. Unfortunately, past efforts by the government and security agents to restore peace in the affected areas did not succeed. Therefore, there is need for a change of tactics in handling the insecurity in Imo State. It is heartwarming that the governor has expressed his willingness to grant amnesty to repentant bandits or armed groups as a way of resolving the lingering security challenges in the state. However, the governor should use the opportunity to reach out to other stakeholders in the state to get their support in the amnesty programme. Let the bandits use the grace period to engage the government on how best to restore peace in the affected areas. Although the 10-day period given to the bandits to surrender is not enough, it is a good starting point for further dialogue with the armed groups. The insecurity in Imo can be resolved with dialogue. A political solution should not be ruled out.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video Let there be realistic plans to encourage the bandits to come out of their hideout. The governor should put in place measures to create more jobs in the state, get youths positively engaged and alleviate poverty. This is the time to deliver democracy dividends to the people.