By Chinelo Obogo, talktonelo@yahoo.com  As part of efforts to improve safety and efficiency of flight operations at the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) on Friday, July 8, commenced the installation of CAT III Airfield Ground Lighting system on Runway 18L/36R. The project is expected to last for 90 days and runway 18L/36R has been closed with all flight operations now being conducted through runway 18R/36L. However, despite assurances by the agency that there will be no disruptions, experts are voicing concern that the project would increase airlines’ cost of operations that are already in dire straits over aviation fuel.  Dilapidated airport infrastructure Shortly before the commencement of the installation of airfield lightening, Managing Director of FAAN, Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, alerted that most of the equipment at the nation’s airports are ageing at an average of 40 years and above since their installation.  He said runway 18L will be fixed because planes cannot land on it at night. He revealed that the contractor was supposed to have completed the project in March, but the cables he had were of low quality with FAAN insisting that he used original ones. He said after nine years, they are fixing some of the dilapidated facitlites that were abandoned and are also starting new ones, including baggage handling, the central cooling system. “We contacted the airfield lighting company in Europe to fix the new ones, overhaul the whole airfield lighting system, there was no overhaul in 42 years. That is also in the process. We are fixing things so that those that come after us will get things easier. We have done major repairs of ageing equipment and components. Also, the key elements at MMA and some other airports are being replaced. Some were last replaced in either 1980 or 1985. It is only the air-conditioning system that we have not yet procured, but we are processing it. “We set up a committee last year because we saw that most of the facilities are aged. These equipment were supposed to be replaced every 15 years, but some have gone 25 to 30 years. So, we have a committee that is working and they are almost completing it. They gave us the state of the equipment for all the airports so that we can make use of it, work with the ministry and use it to know their status so that we can plan. “This year, we will work in Akure, Borno, Sokoto and next year, we will work in Port Harcourt, Benin and Yola. We don’t have all the money to fix all, but we will do the entire airports gradually. So, when I leave here, those coming after me will be making use of it,” he said. Airlines in dire straits Though the installation of airfield lightening is a welcome development, experts have said that this project could not have come at a worse time for the airlines when they are practically battling to survive as a result of the cost of aviation fuel. The dire situation airlines face at the moment is such that the at recent conference organised by FAAN in Abuja, the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) said that at least three domestic airlines may shut down in the coming months due to the increasing cost of aviation fuel, saying the price of the product has peaked to N714 per litre in some airports. The AON Vice Chairman, Allen Onyema, who refused to name the airlines said that the aviation fuel challenge is not limited to Nigeria alone, but emphasised that ours is made worse because of the slump of naira against major currencies, especially the dollars. According to AON, in order to address the challenge of high cost of aviation fuel and scarcity, the Federal Government approved 10,000 metric tonnes of aviation fuel to the airlines, but said the carriers were yet to access it. “We ran to the government and the Federal Government has given us about 10,000 metric tonnes of fuel at the cost of N580 per litre in Lagos and about N607 per litre outside Lagos. This is not the only issue. Since the COVID-19 crisis, most airlines all over the world, including Nigeria have not recovered except those whose countries have injected so much funds to assist them. This is no body’s fault. It just happened. Government has tried its best by giving us this aviation fuel. This aviation fuel can take airlines out, not only in Nigeria but everywhere in the world. Some airlines outside Nigeria have closed down because of the effects of rising aviation fuel. If these things are not addressed in Nigeria, it can affect the bottom line of all airlines in Nigeria,” he said. FAAN should carry out project at night Though the project is seen as a welcome development, the chairman of National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE), Arik Air chapter, Mudi Muhammad, said that FAAN could have saved airlines the increased cost of operations they would incur if they had carried out the project at night and allowed airlines to carry out their operations using the closed runway during the day time. Muhammad, an engineer, told Daily Sun that airlines are barely surviving because of the cost of aviation fuel and that the closure of the runway will further impound the issues they are currently facing because it will increase fuel consumption and also cost of operations by at least 50 percent.  “In the dispatch of our duties as pilots and engineers, we have observed a lot of issues which are hampering the growth and development within our industry. We would specifically like to draw the attention of the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, to the issues that are capable of disrupting the smooth running of operations and add additional costs to airlines operators operating within the nation’s local routes and we “This maintenance work is highly commendable because it involves safety but it will be advisable that the work be carried out at night in order to would enable flights operations to continue during the day time and avoid the inconvenience to airline operators. “If you consider distance from the domestic terminal to 18R runway, an increase in aircraft holding time pre take off would increase fuel consumption and add to a financial burden on airlines especially at this time of high cost of jet A1. Normally on 737 NG, when using 18L, the amount of fuel an aircraft will consume for taxing and holding can be put at 200kg, which is two drums. It would normally take about 15 minutes or more to taxi to and fro the GAT when there is no traffic. But with the shutting down of the runway, the aircraft would spend more time and consume more fuel. I expect an aircraft to consume at least 500kg now, which is five drums. “FAAN should know that as more traffic is expected, priority must be given to aircraft that is landing before considering take off. We will appreciate if the minister addresses this issue and make the necessary changes as requested,” he said. However, the national chairman of NAAPE, Abednego Galadima, told Daily Sun that although complaints by airlines about the difficulties they would face are real and valid, FAAN may be considering the security of the personnel and equipment deployed for the project, hence its insistence on executing the project during the day.