From Magnus Eze, Enugu  Nollywood filmmakers have joined the crusade for Igbo cultural renaissance. To this end, they would host the biggest Igbo art, culture and film festival in Enugu in March 2023. Organisers said it will be a huge tourists’ event with large number of visitors expected from within and outside Nigeria. The official unveiling of the festival was performed in Enugu recently, by Nollywood star, Patience Ozokwor, popularly called Mama G. President, Igbo Movie Producers Association of Nigeria (IMPAN), Mr JohnPaul Nwanganga said the festival was aimed at reawakening the consciousness of Ndigbo towards the beauty of their culture. Igbo art, culture and film festival, he said, would reestablish and revive dwindling Igbo culture especially Igbo language by creating awareness in the minds of the Igbo. According to him, the festival will showcase movies, music and dance produced using Igbo language and lifestyle of the people of the region: “So, with this project, we are bringing the five states of the South-East together and make them to understand that in spite of their diversity in their various culture, language and tradition, they are one. “There is that tradition that binds Igbo people together which we are trying to bring alive through this wonderful project. “We are going to have movies produced in Igbo dialect, Igbo music like “Igbo Amaka” by Flavour and stuff like that which will go a long way to promote Igbo identity and heritage. “Igbo Art Exhibition will be used to showcase creativity by Ndigbo.” The president added that the festival would also involve the Igbo-speaking parts of Delta and Rivers States. Nwanganga said notables in film production and acting, many of whom attended the unveiling ceremony, have endorsed the project including Pete Edochie, Ebele Okaro, Nkem Owo, Yul Edochie and Chika Okpala alias Zeburudaya. Others are Diewait Ikpechukwu, Steve Ebo, Stan Amado, Kingsley Nweke, Nkem Alu, Raymond Agwu, Rita Okonkwo, Paulize Ibe, Brown Ene, Kingsley Amadi and Pat Ani. He explained that they will be working with the governors from the region through their Culture and Tourism Ministries. The movie producer added that the festival would be an annual event and a unifying factor for all Igbo. Unveiling the project, Ozokwor who is matron of the Organising Committee blessed the project, noting that the coming together of Igbo film producers to drive the festival would unite the Igbo speaking race. Ozokwor lauded Nwanganga for initialing the idea and urged everyone to support the project.