The reintroduction of the controversial water resources bill in the House of Representatives, despite being rejected by many Nigerians, is an indication that those behind it have a set agenda.  The bill, which was thrown out by the 9th National Assembly, was, on June 30, 2022, brought back by the chairman of House Committee on Water Resources, Sada Soli. The bill seeks to bring all water sources as well as river banks under the control of the Federal Government through the agencies to be created by the bill. The bill was also introduced in the 7th and 8th National Assemblies and was rejected due to opposition by Nigerians. When the bill resurfaced earlier in the 9th Assembly, it faced serious opposition and was subsequently withdrawn following strident protests from many lawmakers, the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) and other Nigerians. In the renewed bid to reintroduce the bill, the Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, had assured Nigerians that the obnoxious issues in the old bills had been reviewed. Some of the sections in the bill that are contentious include Section 13, which states  that “in implementing the principles  under subsection (2) of this section, the institutions  established under this act  shall promote  integrated  water resources management   and the coordinated management  of land and water  resources, surface water and ground water resources, river basins and adjacent marine and coastal  environment  and upstream and downstream  interests.” The most contentious aspect of the water bill is Section 2(1), which states, “all surface water and ground water, wherever it occurs, is a resource common to all people.”  With the reintroduction of the bill in the House of Representatives, there are fears that the Federal Government wants to, through the bill, annex the land in littoral states for the benefit of a certain ethnic group. The desperation to pass the water bill cannot be rationalised. Since the water bill had earlier been rejected by Nigerians, we enjoin members of the Lower House to throw it away without any further delay. Apart from not serving any useful purpose, the bill will further give more powers to the central government at a time there is a strident clamour for the devolution of powers from the centre to the federating units. Already, there are 68 items on the Exclusive Legislative List. We believe that adding the water bill to the list will be unnecessary. Instead of bringing back the obnoxious water bill, the lawmakers should think of making laws that will enhance the peace and unity of the country as well as laws that will ensure good governance, prosperity and economic growth. It is worth reminding the lawmakers that the peace and the unity of the country should not be compromised. The energy expended in reintroducing the water bill ought to be used in addressing the numerous challenges facing the country, such as insecurity, bad economy and corruption. Any bill that seeks to deprive individuals and communities the benefits accruing from their land and waterways is inimical to the wellbeing of a diverse country like Nigeria. In a period Nigerians are calling for true federalism, it is untenable that some federal lawmakers are keenly working to bring back the rejected water bill. Any piece of legislation that has been rejected several times by Nigerians is not worthy of being reintroduced by the House of the Representatives. It should be discarded forthwith. Let the lawmakers be reminded of their democratic responsibilities to the people and think twice about bills that can cause discord. They should understand that the centralisation of power at the centre has not bode well for the country and has led to current agitations for restructuring and constitutional amendments. The existing federal arrangement has stunted the development of the country. No doubt, the bill is a recipe for disaster. It is an extension of the problems facing the people.  Above all, let the energy devoted to this bill be re-channeled to other pending bills in the House that can improve the economy and the wellbeing of Nigerians.