From Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin Kebbi Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu has said that the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Kebbi State remained a united and formidable party that will clinch the 2023 elections in Kebbi State. Bagudu stated this while fielding questions from newsmen shortly after the national leaders of the party met with the stakeholders of the party in the state at the Banquet Hall, Presidential Lodge, in Birnin Kebbi. The Governor, who was represented by his Deputy, retired Col. Samaila Yombe Dabai, said the Governor and all the stakeholders were working assiduously towards strengthening the party ahead of the 2023 General Elections. He debunked news making rounds that some aggrieved members of the party were planning to leave the party as the aftermath of the party’s primaries in the state. The leader of the team, who is the APC National Vice Chairman, North-West Zone, Alhaji Salihu Luqman said that their visit to Kebbi State was part of the tour of the seven states in the Zone sequel to the directives by the National Secretariat of the party to visit the Northwest states. He said that they would hold discussions with APC supporters to listen to their views, in order to address the challenges facing the party . This, according to him,is to work towards uniting the party ahead of the 2023 elections, to ensure the party’s victory in Nigeria. The National Zonal Vice-Chairman lamented that the aftermath of the APC primary elections in some states led to the defection of some APC members to other parties. He expressed happiness with the formidable unity of the party in Kebbi State in spite of the cross carpeting by some politicians to another party. Luqman expressed optimism that such act by some negligible few would not affect the chances of the party in 2023 General Elections. He noted that the large turn-out of APC stakeholders at the meeting was a testimony to the extant glaring unity and cohesion of the party in Kebbi state. Luqman also said the committee would forward a formal report to the National Secretariat of the APC in Abuja after the completion of its exercise.   Earlier, the State APC Chairman, Alhaji Abubakar Muhammad Kana Zuru, in his remark said the discussions and consultations would further unite and strengthen the party in Kebbi State while thanking the members of the delegation for their efforts. Among the personalities at the meeting were the North-West Zonal Secretary, Barrister Bello Muhammad Goronyo, the Zonal Organizing Secretary, Alhaji Salisu Batsaffe, the Zonal Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Musa Muhammad Mailafiya and the Zonal Women Leader, Hajiya Hadiza Shagari. Kebbi State Deputy Governor, retired Colonel Sama’ila Yombe Dabai led other stakeholders of the state to the meeting which was also attended by retired General Muhammad Magoro, the Secretary to the State Government, Babale Umar Yauri, Commissioners, Party Executive Members at State and Local Government levels, Local Governmenta Chairmen, Special Advisers, a chieftain of the party, Na’Amo Abdullahi and the Chairman, APC Elders’ Forum, Alhaji Sani Hukuma Zauro.