From Noah Ebije, Kaduna The National Union of Textile Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria (NUTGTWN) has said that it will join forces with Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) to mobilise its members for a solidarity strike action if the Federal government fails to address the crisis between it and the Academic Staff Union of University (ASUU) as quickly as possible. This was even as the NUTGTWN strongly condemned the federal government’s “no work–no pay” policy on the striking university workers. In a statement issued by the President of NUTGTWN, Comrade John Adaji to felicitate with Muslims on the occasion of Eid-el-kabir, it called on the federal government to urgently address the lingering crisis in the Nigeria’s education sector. “We note that despite the efforts of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and trade unions in Nigeria’s university system to resolve this crisis including the convening of high-powered meetings of stakeholders, the government has remained recalcitrant and insensitive to the plight of the lecturers and the students by refusing to give the matter the seriousness it deserves. Even more worrisome and provocative is the recent declaration of “no work – no pay” policy by the Federal government resulting in the stoppage of the salaries of the striking university workers. “The point cannot be overstated. Once an agreement is signed, it becomes binding on parties to the agreement. Acting contrary to the terms of collective agreement as done by the Federal government is a violation that is injurious to the industrial relations process. ASUU strike is a legitimate move to enforce an agreement entered into with the Federal government. “We call on the Federal government to urgently put an end to the lingering strike action through immediate implementation of the agreement it freely entered into with ASUU and other unions in the education sector. Continuous interruption of education through avoidable strike action poses serious threat to the future of Nigerian students and takes Nigeria many steps backwards in education. “We therefore call on the Federal government to take necessary steps to urgently address the lingering industrial action in Nigeria’s Universities, Polytechnics, Colleges of Education and Research Institutions. We strongly condemn the unhelpful path taken by the government through it’s “no work–no pay” policy on the striking university workers. “As an affiliate of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), we hereby commend the untiring effort and solidarity of the leadership of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) led by Comrade Ayuba Wabba and other concerned citizens of the country with a view of resolving the lingering crisis in the education sector. “We hereby express our readiness to mobilise our members nationwide in compliance with the resolution of the National Executive Council (NEC) of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) for a solidarity strike action in support of Congress affiliates in the Education Sector if the Federal government fails to urgently demonstrate the required sense of urgency to address the crisis in the education sector as quickly as possible. “It will be recalled that the Academic Staff Union of Nigeria Universities (ASUU) has been on strike for the past four months. Students largely from working class and poor families have remained at home since then following the avoidable strike action. Students of Polytechnics and Colleges of Education have also in recent times faced the same challenge”. The statement said.