West   Africa’s   online   job   platform,   Jobberman   has   launched   an employer-focused initiative called Jobberman Starter Promo. Its aimed at contributing to employment growth and providing an enabling environment for employers looking to give young talents a head start. This initiative is an offshoot of its ongoing partnership with Mastercard Foundation’s Young Africa Works and will allow companies to utilize Jobberman’s Job listing product for free, over the next three months for jobs that require between 0-3 years of experience. Over the years, the leading job platform has continued to bridge the gap between improving candidates uptake and facilitating entry into companies by supporting mass recruitment, entry-level jobs, internships and graduate-level jobs. The Jobberman starter Promo is designed to attract employers interested in posting entry-level job listings on the platform by offering free credit listing for the job. With its partnership with Mastercard Foundation, the mission is to up skill over a million Nigerian youths, matching them with dignified job opportunities. The Chief Executive Officer, Jobberman, Oreoluwa Boboye, said: “We are West Africa’s number one career platform because we ensure that we connect the right candidates with the right opportunities. We have built   careers   over   the   years   and   will   continue   to   support   Nigerian   youths   with   the   right   employment opportunities.   With   our   experience   and   level   of   expertise,   we   have   identified   the   gaps   in   improving candidates’   uptake   into   companies   and   seek   to   remove   the   barriers.   This   is   why   we   launched   the Jobberman Starter Promo. With this, we will bridge the gap between employers in Nigeria and the entry level job seekers in the country.” Jobberman Nigeria is part of the African Talent Company, a group of pan-African businesses working together to solve the  talent gap in Africa with unique,  home-grown solutions. The Jobberman Starter Promo initiative and its partnership with the Mastercard Foundation advances its commitment to solving talent   issues   in   the   country   and   contributing   to   reducing   Nigeria’s   unemployment   rate.  Jobberman continues to be Nigeria’s most user-centric and transparent career platform. For information on the initiative, employers can visit  www.jobberman.com/employer/entrylevel and getstarted.