Former Kaduna State Military Governor, Col. Abubakar Umar has called on the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami to execute the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari which granted state pardon for former Plateau and Taraba state governors, Josua Dariye and Jolly Nyame. Umar in a statement, yesterday, said he had appealed for the pardon of both governors who were convicted of criminal breach of trust in which they embezzled N1.16 billion and N1.6billion respectively. “Their conviction by a Federal High Court in 2018 followed due judicial process as affirmed by the Supreme Court. Both spent two years in detention while their trial lasted. They have now served a further four years after their conviction, making cumulative six years of a ten year sentence… “It is difficult to tell what part my appeal had played in the decision of the National Council of State led by President Muhammadu Buhari to magnanimously grant state pardon to Governors Dariye and Nyame along with 159 other convicts. It has to be said, however, that their pardon was greeted with public dissent and protests. Many considered the decision to pardon them as evidence yet of the lack of seriousness in the government’s war against corruption. Regrettably, the public’s antagonism might well have intimidated the government resulting in the Justice Ministry’s hesitancy in issuing their release warrant to the Ministry of Interior and the National Correctional Service. And so Governors Dariye and Nyame have remained in prison three months after being granted state pardon… “At a time when most Nigerians are calling for equity in every aspect of our national life, Governors Dariye and Nyame do not deserve to be singled out but treated like every body else.  Besides, I am sure the President will remain steadfast in implementing a decision approved by the National Council of State even if it might seem somewhat unpopular with a section of the public.  The Attorney General should, in obedience to the directive of the President, transmit the warrant to the agencies responsible for the release of Governors Josua Dariye and Jolly Nyame without any further delay.”