A Non-Governmental Organisation, Global Advocacy Against Drug Abuse Crime and Trafficking (GAADACT), in partnership with the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), is set to fight drug abuse and illicit trafficking in Nigeria. Following the commemoration of its International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, GAADACT, in solidarity with the United Nations Office on Drug and Crime (UNODC) paid a courtesy visit to NDLEA office in Lagos. During the visit, GAADACT directors, Comrade Babatunde Ifenuga (LEAD-P), Prince Ogaga Wowo (Kobis Global Group) and Elvis Obiajuru (Star Faces Productions) presented a magazine dedicated to World Drug Day, to commemorate the international day against drug abuse and illicit trafficking. On behalf of the NGO, Ifenuga unfolded the plans of GAADACT to support the fight against drug abuse, crime and illegal trafficking, stressing that the group was set to deploy innovations to help tackle the menace. He bemoaned the negative impacts of wrong use of creative content, adding that the group would work with relevant stakeholders to promote and sponsor creative contents, such as music, comedy, drama, poem and other creative works, to inject value, dignity of labour, civic responsibility and positive lifestyle. Wowo said young people should also be engaged in sports and skill acquisitions to keep them busy. He said it was not enough to tell young people to shun drugs, as they must be engaged positively. The group promised to organise musical concerts and sports competitions for youths with the hope of sensitising them to avoid drug abuse. The NDLEA State Commander, Alumona Callys, spoke about the renewed efforts of NDLEA, under the leadership of Brig Gen. Buba Marwa (retd), to end the use of drug abuse. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video He said the agency is open to partnership with stakeholders who are ready to support the fight against drug abuse and trafficking, as he advised role models in the society, especially, those in the music and film industry, to show good examples through the contents they put out to the public, to help to build and not corrupt people’s mind.