By Gabriel Dike The Teachers’ Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN) has inducted 353 students of Lagos State University of Education (LASUED) into the teaching profession The induction, was performed by the Registrar,  TRCN, Prof.  Josiah Olusegun Ajiboye, and the students were awarded TRCN certificates. It was witnessed by the acting Vice-Chancellor, LASUED, Prof. Bidemi Bilkis Lafiaji-Okuneye, acting Deputy VC, Dr.  Onibo Olajide, management staff, traditional rulers, staff and students. Oniba of Iba, Oba Sulaimon Adesina Raji, announced N1 million each to Mrs. Stella Ugochukwu-Anunike (MSc) and Dr. Akintolure Oluwasina, a lecturer in Department of Curriculum and Instruction of LASUED, to encourage others to register for the TRCN programme.     The donation attracted ovations from dignitaries and students.    Ajiboye told the gathering that the teaching profession was no longer an all-comer’s affair, starting, “It is a serious business.” The TRCN boss explained that quality teachers determine quality education, noting that, in Finland, minimum qualification for teaching is masters’ degree. Ajiboye disclosed that most developed countries have quality teachers, thus their rapid development. He tasked the new inductees to see themselves as global teachers even as he revealed that over 250 Nigerian teachers were going to Canada to teach, declaring, “Nigerian teachers are now hot cake.” Prof. Ajiboye emphasized that 21st Century teachers must be technology compliance, stressing, “as 21st century teachers, you cannot afford to be “born before computer” (BBC). “The Federal Government is trying to make the profession better.  Graduate teachers will start from level 9 while NCE holders at level 8.  We have started it at the federal level and we urge the states to also start the implementation,” Ajiboye noted. The acting VC of LASUED, Prof. Okuneye, who declared the induction ceremony opened, said the need for professionalism in teaching in the present day Nigeria is unquestioned and that the reason is simple. “The toll of the national challenges such as terrorism, kidnapping, banditry, among others in the psyche of our young learners is devastating. “This is capable of inundating the innocent minds with extremism, radicalization, general intolerance towards others, and holding views that are at variance with the core norms of the society. It will take more than ordinary teachers to effectively address these difficult challenges,” she stated. The VC identified teachers as promoters of quality education and further declared that professional teachers are advocates for and catalysts of change. She added:  “It is incontrovertible that no education reform is likely to succeed without the active participation and ownership of professional teachers.” Lafiaji-Okuneye explained that teachers, aside giving “normal” class lessons, offer the key ingredients needed to tackle ill-informal thinking, potential radicalization and stressed that evidence-based teaching, and interventions are recognized as solutions for building resilience to extremism in young learners. The LASUED VC observed that the nation needs active engagement of the professional teachers to shape the future of the country. She acknowledged the conceited effort of TRCN under the leadership of Prof. Ajiboye, especially in the proposed naming and shaping of programmes designed to bring to the attention of state government, the number of unqualified teachers in their employment. “This is in line with the mandate of TRCN as regards professionalism of teaching in public and private schools in Nigeria.  Interestingly, the National Council on Education has directed that anybody who wants to teach must be qualified and registered with TRCN.  By this, TRCN has been empowered to remove unqualified teachers,” the VC noted. Lafiaji-Okuneye urged the graduates to reflect on the sanctity of the Oath to abide by the tenets of the teaching profession. She also charged them to be worthy ambassadors and keep to the ethnics of the profession. Her words:  “As the country is urgently yearning for technologically savvy teachers to be able to cope with developments in the sector and achieve her potentials.  I admonish you to acquire technology assisted learning.  This will help you to be in tune with world standards.”