From Ogbonnaya Ndukwe, Aba State and Local Council Authorities in Abia State have been challenged to get more involved in securing life and property through sponsorship and provision of logistics to local community based vigilance groups. This, is as, the police received commendation for the positive collaboration between its formations and some vigilante groups in Aba South Area. Chairman of the Local Government Area Traditional Rulers Council, Eze Ibe Enyeazu, said the police in Ndiegoro Division (Cameroon Barracks), have worked well in educating community vigilante members, on operational processes and advising them on better options in local security management. Enyeazu, a member of the Area Council’s security committee, however, lamented the lacklustre attitude of the state and local government authorities, towards funding and provision of logistics to local vigilantes to fight crime in their communities: “For us in Aba South rural communities, using local vigilante groups have given us hope. “Before this time, Ndiegoro axis of Ngwa Road, was a no go area from 7 O’clock in the evening, but since setting up our local vigilante outfit, the situation has change with crime rate dropping to a minimum. “Government authorities, especially the Local Government, is not doing anything to assist us either by cash donations or provision of logistics. “The only group that is helping out is the police. The DPO in Ndiegoro, sends his men to come and interact with and provide training to the youths we have gathered to ensure security of lives and property in our community. “They monitor and give advice on operational matters and caution the members, where necessary.” The royal father expressed worry that the rise in criminal activities and use of dangerous drugs by youths could be as a result of unemployment with poor access roads disrupting proper policing in the communities. He appealed to well to do citizens to assist local vigilante groups in their areas, by providing logistics and cash to fund the well-being of their members and their families.