Suspected gunmen have invaded the Agwan Baraya village in Mangu local government of Plateau state,  shot the village head. Witnesses told sunnewsonline.com that while the village head was rushed to a nearby hospital in the council area, his son, who was identified as Chamsan, who was also shot by the gunmen during the attack died on the spot . READ ALSO:  Accident claims woman on way to bury husband A resident of the village, Ilya Samson, who confirmed the attack to journalists  on Sunday said that after shooting the victims, the gunmen abducted the wife of the village head and fled into the bush. Samson said “Our community in Pyam chiefdom, Mangu LGA, has once again been hit with another tragedy as heavily armed killer bandits last night attacked the residence of Elder statesman and leader of Angwan Baraya village, Jannaret Ward, Gindiri District, Baba Yarima Jabil. “The gunmen opened a barrage of gunfire at his residence around midnight and shot the community leader. “After the attackers finished their operations unchallenged, he was rushed to a hospital in the locality but his son, Chamsan, who was in his late 30’s wasn’t lucky enough to survive the bullets that hit him as he died instantly. “The bandits also took away two women including the wife of the community leader and there has been no trace of her whereabouts at the moment. “As I’m talking to you , we are on our way to bury the son who was killed during the attack which has thrown the community into mourning. “Some security men came to the village after the gunmen had left and I’m sure this kind of thing would not be happening if we have a government that cares and that is why as a community ,we are calling on other Nigerians to consider the current insecurity in many parts of the country and ensure that they elect the right leaders in government during the 2023 elections.” The spokesman for the Plateau state Police Command, Alabo Alfred, could not be reached when contacted on the attack as his mobile phone was switched off as at the time of filing this report.