From Emmanuel Adeyemi lokoja An All Progressive Congress women leader in kogi state anda kogi central senatorial aspirant , Ramatu Tasalla Shehu Attahas made a passionate plea for the APC presidential flag bearer, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to consider a female running mate for the 2023 presidential election so as to create a sense of inclusion and gender balance. In a press statement she personally signed and made available to newsmen in lokoja,Ramatu a leading light in kogi politic expressed worry why the choice of a running mate for the APC presidential candidate is taken too long saying a female running mate is the best option for now as women are naturally, loyal, supportive and not too ambitious. The statement reads in parts:” Following the victory of Asiwaju at the party’s presidential primary election, it is expected that our candidate should by now, be engrossed with his team jointly coordinated by himself and his running mate (not a placeholder) on the strategies for winning the forthcoming presidential election. “As a loyal and committed member of our party, I feel obliged to draw the attention of the coordinating teams, the think tank and other strategy groups of our party, which includes Asiwaju and his inner team, governors elected on the platform of the party and the National Working Committee, NWC to take a look at one area of possible search for a viable VP Candidate that can perfectly match the presidential candidate to win the elections come 2023. “This area which has often been overlooked is the non-consideration of the female gender by the party. With the benefit of hindsight as well as drawing from my personal field interactions with women during my campaign as a Senatorial Aspirant and coupled with the views of majority of female aspirants, my honest suggestion and appeal is that a female be considered as the running mate to our candidate to create a sense of inclusion and balance. “Our candidate and leader is known as a man of uncommon wisdom and courage: One who sees farther, better and one with the ability to see beyond bends and corners. The Pathfinder of Lagos can create wider political footprints and usher in another vista in his gigantic political credentials and footages if he gives this suggestion and idea the deserving serious thoughts and considerations. “There is a growing feeling that our women have been neglected in political considerations and balance as if gender equity does not count. The women could attract victory if they form part of the matrix of the presidential team with one of them as running mate to the presidential candidate of the APC. “After over 60 years of independence and over 36 years of democratic rule, no woman in Nigeria has ever been elected in any Governorship and Presidential elections – Why is that so? Nigeria being the giant of Africa, should provide the leadership instead of copying examples and templates of smaller African nations. “Whereas Liberia, Tanzania, Malawi and Ethiopia, all have Africa female heads of government at one time or the other, Nigeria is yet to replicate this, despite her strategic position in ECOWAS. The great example is Madam Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf: The Harvard-trained former president of Liberia who went on to stabilize a war-ravaged nation and literally nursed the nation back to survival. “Her innate abilities were put to task, rather than her gender. Women are natural builders, nurturers and managers who easily do well when saddled with high responsibilities and offices. Thus, the women who have held high offices in Africa have contributed so much to the overall development of their respective countries and to our admirations too. “Rwanda despite her catastrophic and avoidable genocidal atrocities are leading in women inclusion in governance in the areas of legislative operations to the satisfaction of many nations. In Nigeria, we are still moving at snail speed, pacing slowly towards the actualization of 35% affirmative action agreed at the Beijing conference. “Competent women with good pedigree and qualifications abound across the length and breath of this country such that meets our quest for their inclusion in governance. It is a truism that the female proportion of votes cast at all elections across the country form a sizeable share but yet they are not adequately appreciated, motivated and compensated by adequate and equitable representation. “Women are naturally loyal to men as heads in leadership positions. The tempering of political power and high office with a simple human touch and ability to multi-task makes the female gender a great political complement. This unique ability is often overlooked and untapped. “Now is the time for women to be properly recognized, for they have often bore the brunt of all conflicts in African continents. We need to balance the equation of inequitable treatment and poor representation, particularly in political offices. This will encourage more participation in political processes and electioneering. The burden women carry as deputy heads of the families is equal to that of a vice president. She can replicate this on greater scale” the statement added. Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android