Bayelsa State Government has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with BioCubaFarma Consortium of the Republic of Cuba for the establishment of a vaccines and pharmaceuticals production plant in the state. This was the fallout of a three-day investment visit to Cuba by Governor Douye Diri. At a ceremony in Havana, the Cuban capital, the Bayelsa Commissioner for Health, Dr. Pabara Igwele, and the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Trade, Industry and Investments, Patience Abah, signed for the government while the First Vice President of BioCubaFarma, Dr. Mayda Mauri Pérez, signed for the consortium. A statement by the Director, New Media to the Bayelsa State Governor, Dr. Kola Oredipe, noted that the partnership is in furtherance to an earlier bilateral agreement between the Nigerian government and that of Cuba on scientific cooperation, technology transfer, academic collaboration and the co-production of vaccines and other pharmacological products in the country. Dr. Igwele said the partnership deal marked a milestone in the quest of the government to attract investments into the state. “This is a good development for us in Bayelsa State. The vaccines and other pharmaceutical products are in high demand in Nigeria and beyond. With the centre, Bayelsa can serve other states and nations in the West Africa sub-region.  “In the next few months, the technical teams from both sides will work out further details of the agreement with the technical teams from both end,” he stated. The Health Commissioner said the vaccines and pharmaceuticals production factory would provide job opportunities, build expertise of Bayelsans and also ensure technology transfer for sustainability of the plant. Also, as part of the visit, the Bayelsa delegation met with Deputy Governor of Havana Province, Mrs. Yanet Hernandez Parez, and the Vice Minister for Trade, Matanzas Province, Ms. Deborah Rivas Saavedra to explore other business opportunities, including discussions on sugar production, renewable energy, ICT and exchange programmes for students in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics. Others who joined the governor at the various meetings and witnessed the signing ceremony include the Nigerian Ambassador to Cuba, Benaoyagha Okoyen,  Dr. Fred Agbedi, member representing Sagbama/Ekeremor Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Prof. Ebitimitula Etebu, Vice Chancellor, Bayelsa Medical University, Yenagoa and Major Lancelot Anyanya (Rtd.).