Prof. Bernard Odoh, the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) governorship candidate in Ebonyi, has reiterated his readiness to deepen capacity building towards improving food production, education and service delivery system in the state, if elected in 2023. Odoh told newsmen he would improve the training and retraining of personnel in agriculture and civil service. The gubernatorial candidate said that his government would reduce taxation and restructure the civil service system. “When I come on board, I am going to harmonise of taxation. We are not going to over impose tax on people in order to encourage small scale businesses. “The retraining of personnel is very imperative and we shall embark on that in order to make the people more efficient and effective in all sectors. “When I become the governor, my business as governor is to chase investment opportunity and venture into what can bring people to invest in Ebonyi for business. “Education being the bedrock of development, we are going to restructure the system. “We must rearrange our educational curriculum to speak with the modern reality. In doing this, we shall increase our budget for education. “Our primary and secondary schools are in shamble and we cannot fold our hands. First, we shall hold a summit ro assess the system. My government will only embark on projects based on people’s need. “Any infrastructure that does not have value for people is a waste. Let me tell you, I am not running for the governorship position because I am an Ezza man, I am running because I am an Ebonyi man. “In my government, there shall be no hide and seek politics,” he stated. When asked about his contenders, Odoh said that he had no one standing aside his burning desire to improve the healthcare, education, agriculture, job creations and eject poverty from the land. “I have no contender from any party. My contenders are on how to improve the system such as in education, security as well as human capital development, among others,” the candidate explained. (NAN)