From Gyang Bere, Jos The gubernatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Plateau State, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang has declared that youths will play a critical role in driving his administration in view of their wealth of experienced in Information and Communication Technology if given the mandate to govern the state in 2023. Mutfwang who disclosed this at the weekend while receiving different youth groups and supporters across the state, pledged to provide credible and competent leadership that will rebuild and restore the dignity of the state that has been battered in the last 7 years by the inept leadership of the APC administration. The gubernatorial hopeful who responded separately to the groups, described their visits as timely and as a moral booster to him and the PDP towards reclaiming the state in 2023. Mutfwang explained further that the choice of his running mate which was widely consulted among critical stakeholders in the party served as a bridge between the youths and the old in providing competent leadership in driving the state to the land of prosperity. “I am happy to receive you because you belong to a demography of supreme interest to me. My running mate is here. She is the most maligned woman in Plateau State right now because I picked her to work with me. “My desire to be Governor is to provide leadership and the youths are the critical mass from which my administration would be driven when we come into office. We shall form the most youthful cabinet Plateau State has ever had. “Using your skills and familiarization with today’s technologies coupled with the realities of an ever changing world, we will be relying on you to drive the machinery of governance while my running mate and I supervise”. The Youth groups under the umbrella of “Mangu Project” from Mangu Local Government Area and Coalition of Youth Support Groups from Jos North Local Government Area were excited by Mutfwang’s proclamation, vowed to drive PDP campaign for the 2023 election in the state to victory. Leader of the Coalition of Youth Support Groups for Mutfwang/Piyo governorship ticket, Hajiya Zainab Madi assured the candidate of their readiness to embark on door to door campaign and bring Plateau youths under the umbrella for a convincing victory. She rejoiced with Mutfwang and Mrs Piyo on their emergence and said the youths will mobilize people across the 17 Local Government Areas to chased out the failed APC government in 2023. Mr Bello Chifwang also praised Mutfwang for his uncommon patriotism to Plateau and his humility which peck him as the most competent and credible emerging leader who is well prepared to salvage the state. He expressed optimism that Mutfwang and the PDP will emerged victorious at the next year general elections, coupled with the facts that APC has set Plateau State backward in the last 7 years. Leaders of the “Mangu Project” said they were happy to be witnesses to the beginning of the realization of their dream of having the next Governor of Plateau State come from their extraction. The youths applauded PDP family in the state for entrusting Mutfwang with the task of flying the gubernatorial ticket which they said will replaced the APC Government in 2023 by the grace of God.