I had too many texts and calls asking questions on prostate, which although topical, had become too recurrent. I was to do a Q and A on prostate, pulling in all the questions and answering them for the benefit of others, especially those above 50. Something remarkable struck, almost every person around me was suffering from bouts of diarrhea. I was persuaded to discuss diarrhea which although common still inadvertently kills a lot of people. May I attempt defining diarrhea. Diarrhea is passage of loose watery stools. A person with this, typically passes stool more than three times a day. Normally stool is 60 to 90 percent water, diarrhea mainly results when the percentage of water in stool exceeds 90.    Acute diarrhea is a common problem to everybody and mainly results when we consume food our body does not agree with – it is medically called “food poisoning”, most people misunderstand this medical term, associating it with their food being poisoned by their enemies. Acute diarrhea from such food poisoning usually lasts 1 or 2 days and goes away on its own without special treatment. If it is prolonged for more than 2 days, may be a sign of a more serious problem and poses the risk of dehydration. Chronic diarrhea may be a feature of a chronic disease. Usually we have two types of diarrhea – acute or infectious diarrhea, which is caused by virus, parasites or bacterium. It can spread quickly from person to person especially in day care centers. Some of the causes of infectious diarrhea such as campylobactiriosis, shiga-toxin producing coli, giardiasis, salmonellosis and shigallosis are known causative organisms. Chronic diarrhea or non infectious diarrhea can be caused by toxins example certain types of food poisoning as mentioned earlier, example of the chronic types are cystic fibrosis, antibiotics like ampicilline. It does not spread from person to person. The symptoms associated with diarrhea may include – watery liquid stools, abnormal pain, cramps, fever, boating and gas, the urgent feeling or need to have a bowel movement, dehydration, peri-anal pain. Other symptoms may include dizziness, light headedness, muscular pains, cramps, sunken eyes, passing little urine, a dry mouth and tongue, irritability. If we must do a diagnosis for diarrhea – examination for ova and parasites are necessary or culture and sensitivity test to isolate the organism and match it with the most sensitive drug. So the laboratory scientist will culture your stool for salmonella, shigella and campylobacter species which are the major causes of diarrhea. In most cases of acute diarrhea no treatment is required, especially if it is due to food poisoning. It is usually contained when you pass out all the consumed poisonous or contaminated foods. Recovery is normally total, all you need to do is to augment your fluid intake in form of water, minerals, akamu, custard, fruit juice, soup and salted Crackers. Those with excessive fluid losses and dehydration, more aggressive measures such as iv fluid or Oral Rehydration Therapy (ORT) with added glucose or starch should be instituted. ORT is less expensive, and often just as effective as and more practical than intravenous fluids. Always be medically guided. • Please follow me on Twitter @_DRSUN.