From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan The Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Olalekan Balogun, Alli-Okunmade II, and the Chairman, Senate Committee on Local Contents, Teslim Folarin, have congratulated the Muslims across the country on the occasion of this year’s Eid-el-Kabir celebrations. The congratulatory messages were contained in separate statements issued on Friday by the palace of Olubadan and Folarin, who is the 2023 governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State. Oba Balogun, in a statement signed on his behalf by his Media Aide, Oladele Ogunsola and made available to journalists in Ibadan, charged Muslims to deeply reflect on the historical and religious background of the annual celebration. He urged the adherents of Islamic faith not to be carried away by winning and dinning that the slaughtering of rams would naturally attract, but the essence of the revered and significant event. According to him, “We should be mindful of the purpose of what we are celebrating. We must be conscious of the eternal love of the Almighty Allah for mankind, the undiluted faith in Him as well as total submission to His will which all manifested when the event that culminated into this celebration was originally held. It is also a time for sober reflection on the practice of Islam in the country.” In the same vein, Folarin, who assured people of the state of a better future, noted that the festival symbolizes redemption, sacrifice, forgiveness, altruism and love. He added: “In the spirit of Eid-ul-Adha, Muslims should imbibe the injunctions of Prophet Muhammed (SAW), which teach humility, gratitude and charity towards one another. The sacrifice of Prophet Ibraheem, which we celebrate, must spur us on to sacrifice for the progress and prosperity of Oyo State and Nigeria. Sacrificing for our state and country means giving our best in our various areas of endeavour. “Let’s celebrate this Holy Festival with optimism and unflinching hope that a better tomorrow awaits the Pacesetter State. Let’s take the opportunity of this Holy occasion to pray for Oyo State and Nigeria to overcome the current security and economic crises.”