From Tony Osauzo, Benin  Operatives of the homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) of the Edo State Police Command have commenced investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of a three-year-old boy, simply identified as Prosper, at a private hospital in Benin City. The boy was alleged to have died under questionable circumstances when he accompanied his uncle, Andy Okoli, who is a security man at the hospital. Consequently, his mother, Mary Okoli, is calling for justice, as she suspects foul play. It was learnt that the boy had accompanied his uncle to the private hospital, situated at Wisdom Street, Off 2nd East Circular Road, Benin, where he suddenly disappeared, only for his body to be discovered the following morning, in one of the rooms in the hospital.   Distraught Mrs Okoli said she hurried down to Benin after she was called, and that what she heard has remained a mystery which must be unraveled. A staff of the hospital said: “A security staff, only about 10 days ago, was coming to work with a minor who he said was his sister’s son. On the fateful day, the little boy went missing and was later found dead in one of the hospital rooms, and when we discovered it, we quickly alerted the police.”    A resident in the area, who alleged negligence, said: “When the security man did not see the boy, he did not raise the alarm, and when he eventually did, the body was not found until when a staff went into the labour room the following day.”   Spokesman of the Edo State Police Command, SP Chidi Nwabuzor, while confirming the incident, yesterday, said the police suspected foul play, adding that the security man and the nurse on duty, when the incident happened, were being investigated by the homicide section in the state command.    “The Divisional Police Officer in charge of Esigie Police Division Headquarters, Benin City, and his police operatives moved to the scene and discovered that the hospital premises was well secured, so he suspected foul play, hence, the security man and the nurse who was on duty were arrested and brought to Esigie police station for questioning.  Shortly, the news broke out that the dead body of the child was found at the hospital. The case file of the suspects have been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department of Edo State Police Command, while the body of the child was deposited for preservation. Discreet investigation is currently taking place in the homicide section of the SCID,” Nwabuzor added.