Due to the worsening insecurity in Zamfara State, Governor Bello Matawalle recently urged the citizens to defend themselves. The governor also directed the state commissioner of police to issue licences to all those who qualify and want to obtain guns to defend themselves. According to the Commissioner for Information, Ibrahim Dosara, “government has resolved to take further measures to deal with the recent escalating attacks, kidnapping and criminal levies being enforced on our innocent communities. This act of terrorism has been a source of worry to the people and government of the state.” Therefore, Zamfara State plans to distribute 500 forms to each of the 19 emirates in the state for willing gun owners. In addition, the government will recruit 200 additional community protection guards in each of the 19 emirates of the state. Similarly, Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed, has equally urged some communities to defend themselves against bandits in the face of rising insecurity. The governor, however, instructed that they must work with the law enforcement agencies. Matawalle’s order came on the heels of the recent attacks by bandits in Alkaleri Local Government Area, which left three people dead and three others injured.  Not able to accept the tragedy of bandits killing innocent people indiscriminately, the governor aligned with Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State, who, not long ago, urged residents of the state to defend themselves against ferocious attacks by bandits. Other notable Nigerians had, at one time or the other, called on the citizens to defend themselves in the face of rising attacks by terrorists. Matawalle’s order is understandable. Zamfara State has been under siege by bandits in recent times. According to reports, no fewer than 600 people have been killed in the state in the first half of the year. Unfortunately, the bandits have been operating without restraint because of the inadequate response from security agents. It is apparent that the Federal Government has not done enough to contain the criminal activities of bandits and terrorists. A time has come when government must change its strategies in the ongoing war against bandits, terrorists and other criminal elements in the country. It is such failure that has made many people to contemplate self-help. However, it is obvious that self-help cannot solve Zamfara’s security challenge. It will worsen it. Allowing citizens to bear arms will lead to anarchy. This could explain why the Chief of Defence Staff, Lt Gen. Lucky Irabor, opposed Mattawalle’s proposition, as such action has its far-reaching implications. Moving forward, we call for the intensification of the war against bandits and terrorists until they are finally decimated.  The earlier narrative by government that the terrorists “have been technically defeated” is no longer tenable. The Federal Government can even seek foreign help in its war against terrorists in view of their increasing daring attacks in recent times. Also, the government should consider a national discourse on insecurity. There is also need for a decentralised policing system in the country. We are convinced that the directive on arms liberalisation will worsen the security situation.  It could lead to escalation of crimes. Proliferation of arms would most probably lead to anarchy. The recent report that there are over six million illegal weapons in circulation in the country is an indication that the security situation is deteriorating. Therefore, the Federal Government should act swiftly and mop-up millions of arms and ammunition in the hands of non-state actors who have assumed unprecedented powers in the state and other parts of the country. This should be done nationwide without exempting anybody or group. We welcome the intention of the government to strengthen the intelligence gathering mechanism. We also believe that securing Nigeria has gone beyond what our present centralised policing arrangement can tackle effectively. Decentralising Nigeria’s policing system will help in resolving the current security challenges. Localising the security system will enable the citizens to participate fully in securing their communities.