By Joe Effiong, Uyo The second civilian governor of Akwa Ibom State, Obong Victor Attah, an architect, is regarded in the state as the father of Modern Akwa Ibom. His words are respected even as he rarely speaks. In his interview with journalists, the former governor comes down hard on the Electoral Act and parliamentary system  of government. He also gives analysis why Umo became the preferred PDP gubernatorial candidate in the state.   What is retirement like, what tips do you have for us? I thank God for the good health. To be honest with you, retirement for me may not be different for many people and that’s because I was in the private sector. I came into politics  not by chance; it was a deliberate decision. But I came into politics after I had matured in the private sector. By the time I declared that I wanted to be the governor of the state, I was already 60, which is not common these days.You see young people wanting to hold offices. And so when I retired because of that background, I went straight back into my profession. I  still practise as an architect and town planner. And  I thank God. But I do get a lot of insults sometimes for that because when I go into an office trying to get some jobs, they would say, ‘Oga, you were a governor;  why are you still doing this thing? And I will tell them: “you call my profession this thing?That is what I was trained to do. Politics was just to go and serve and I have come back.” So, I do things in moderation and stick to things I’m  advised to do to keep me healthy. You mentioned that before you went into politics you were in the private sector, would you say that being in a private sector is an advantage for somebody who is hoping to go into elective public office? I sincerely believe so because when people are brought up in a bureaucracy, they see things differently. Maybe, I’m jumping the gun. But I can tell you there was an article in my second year in office in the Washington Post  that clearly highlighted the fact that if you come from the private sector, you can think differently. In that article, they asked me: Why do you want to build a science park? Do you know that it would be the second science park in Africa, after the Dimension Theatre in South Africa?  And I said, why not? because I can see the benefits of a science park in Akwa Ibom State.  Look at what happens in Silicon Valley, what happens in India. Any government can come and build a stadium but a science park will make a difference. So when you come from a private sector, it gives you the opportunity to,  in fact, think slightly differently and it can help in the way you model things. Let’s go into politics. We recently had political party primaries.  What’s your take in the whole exercise and how do you look at the contentious provisions of the electoral act which excluded  people said to be statutory delegates from  from voting? To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. I am glad you asked that question and I will answer it as a broad-based question. I had been asked earlier, What do you think of the electoral act? I said, apart from being specific about the punishment that should be meted out to people who commit electoral crime, what are the two essential areas of the act? The first was the use of electronic media. Why do we need an act? They have set up INEC. We told INEC, do everything you find necessary to make sure that elections are properly conducted. INEC had decided that the use of an electronic transmission system would help for the proper conduct of the election. Why do they need another law to say that it should be so? That’s what messed up the last election because the Supreme Court even threw out cases and they said, “oh, the use of the card reader is not in the act, therefore they should not use it. How couldn’t they have used that when the act setting them up empowers them to do whatever they find necessary to make sure elections are properly conducted? So for me, it was a meaningless, unnecessary act. The second was the question of delegates and I asked; “are parties now parastatals of government? Why should the government be the one to tell the parties how candidates should emerge? You have the party constitution. So for me, it is a meaningless act because we just want to duplicate things so that we can cause confusion. And believe me, I go from there and say all of this delegate thing; why should one representative from a local government come and tell me who I should vote for as the president and yet the president is supposed to be familiar with the whole country and we are supposed to know him? But only one person from one local government will come and tell me I can only vote for this one and cannot vote for the other one.  So this system that we are using is totally unsuitable for Nigeria, incapable of allowing the youths to come into politics. It is not good for Nigeria because we do not have real representation. If we have a parliamentary system, for those of you who have only known the military, there was a system that was parliamentary. Take the federal Constituency as a unit, everybody would have been elected from their federal constituency. I am talking at the national level now, would have been elected into the national assembly. Within that  national assembly, they will now among themselves pick ministers, pick those who should be the first among equals – the prime minister, and then you will have a very robust house. What do I mean by a very robust house? Look at the situation in which we were told that some people stepped down for Obi and some stepped down  for others, why? None of these people came from the same constituency. So, if we did not have this presidential system, all of them would have been in the parliament  and that would have been a very robust part Let me bring it down to the state where you will fully understand. The minute we raised Umo Eno’s hand, everybody knew that this was the preferred candidate. Some immediately left and went to other parties; only one of them can get that position of governor. I would have loved to see the parliament in which all people, all of them capable and that is why they were aspiring to be governor – of them in the House of assembly here, developing Akwa Ibom because they would be contributing ideas to the development of Akwa Ibom. Look at the people that have since left and gone and will not perhaps be governor, and when they are not governor, you lose the benefit of what they could have contributed to the development of the state.  The presidential system is completely wrong and does not help for the development of the country. I am advocating very strongly and the youths can never find the money to fight all those established people because it has become a money game. While at the parliamentary system, you come to my community and say,” we want your representative.”  Believe  me, it does not take INEC or any rigging system or whatever to tell me or my community who should represent us. We will get together and say “this is the person that is representing. So you will get true representation. “ And when you get that kind of representation, he has an obligation to his community. He will be able to go to Parliament and if he wins, the  Prime Minister at the federal level and Premier at the state level will say I want to do this, he will be able to speak for his community. But we do not have that kind of situation in the Presidential system. I have read everyday about how many bills have been sent to the President and how few he has signed. The parliament is lamely useless. They are not contributing. What the president wants goes; what the governor wants goes. Full stop.  It is not right. It should be what the people want and people should mean everybody, the youths, women, and others being full participants and full representatives of their communities. But taking up on true representation, the Electoral Act made provisions for direct primaries,  indirect primaries  and consensus. Which of them should Nigeria adopt? I will not adopt any because I don’t accept the system. I will  adopt the parliamentary system that allows  the people to bring out people from their communities. I will completely reject the presidential election and therefore completely reject any other system that would bring out a candidate. You mentioned Pastor Umo Eno earlier. Was the choice of Pastor Umo Eno that of the governor or that of the stakeholders of the state? Pastor Umo Eno was identified by the stakeholders and luckily the governor also agreed that he will be very happy to have him as a successor. That is the truth. So, it was the stakeholders that identified Umo Eno along with a few other names. And I can tell you with quite a few of the others, there was the issue of “if this person wins, he will hand over the government to so and so and so because they had a group. Umo Eno did not have a group. Umo Eno has Akwa Ibom as his community. Tell me, who are Umo Eno’s groups? Nobody! It is all of Akwa Ibom. Besides, he has the humility to listen. I have known him for quite some time, he is prepared to ask questions,”Why was this like that? Or could we do it a different way?” He has also the ability to implement From the report, you were the one who presented  Umo  Eno during that meeting. Can you tell the world the qualities you saw in him to believe that he is the person to take Akwa Ibom to the next level? Everybody that came to me  to say they want to be a governor, I said I am not allowed to have a preference because when the day comes, I will be the one to announce the preferred candidate. But I will bless you to go and work. If they accept, I will lift your hand and say, you are the preferred candidate. So  that is the role I played as a political leader of this state. And I have already told you these things. As I said, it was not just me, it was a lot of stakeholders identifying not only him but a few other people  and the governor happened to identify fully with him. What we saw, I have already told you,  his sense of commitment, humility, loyalty and the ability to ask questions. If you look at  Lagos State government, it has benefited from the fact that there is continuity. But what this  state for instance suffered from was that in the words of Winston Churchill, “If you pick a fight between the present and the past, we would have lost the future.” In this state, we picked a quarrel with the past. My science Park was abandoned,  my seaport was abandoned, my university of technology was abandoned, my power plant was abandoned, and several other things were abandoned.  We started new things. We pick a quarrel with the past and in the process everybody seems to agree that we have lost the future. Umo Eno  will not be like that.  He will listen. He will go along with what was in the past and build up to the point where we can have the Akwa Ibom of our future. We have heard various accounts of events on the day that you presented Umo Eno to the stakeholders. What was the mood of other stakeholders? Were there dissenting voices and all of that? Honestly, there was a standing ovation that was difficult to bring to a stop. It went on and on. But there was one strong voice; there was one of the aspirants who raised  his hand three times but could not speak and at the end, he voiced out complaining that this was not fair; they  should have been told; they should  have had a private meeting with all the aspirants before this happened. But he stayed till the end. But there were two other aspirants who quietly accepted the situation as it was. And after that, the speech I made was that, I know by what I am doing, quite a number of people will feel disenchanted. So, I reached out to all of them. I could not get to two aspirants, But I talked to all the others and said it did not fall on you. So please, accept the situation as it was, So the mood was that of full and total acceptance.  Were you satisfied with the responses you got when you talked to them? I thank God that I still have a good measure of respect for elders for even common sense if you like.  One of them just completely avoided me. And later on, he gave me his reasons for avoiding me. He said he knew I was going to suggest an alternative for him and he was not prepared to take the alternative; so he just did not want to talk to me. But the others said it’s okay. We will go back to what we were doing. And some were like “I’m still angry. Respect is  reciprocal. He did not even respect us  at all. He just came and announced to us that this is the best among them.”I told him nobody says he is the best, he is just the preferred candidate. I talked to them and they calmed down. I believe those that didn’t want to, still went and took tickets in other parties.           Some of the aspirants were not not around. So did you expect what would eventually happen? By the time somebody is declared as the preferred candidate and you know the background that he was not one man trying to force or impose him on anybody;  but that stakeholders had met and considered, it was only wise that people went along with the elders and  those stakeholders. And so the result did not surprise me. One of those who partook of the primaries actually instituted a court case over  certificate forgery. How did that come to you?        First I laughed; then I said maybe I shouldn’t laugh. Let me try and verify the facts. I have heard this certificate thing. Didn’t you hear when Buhari was declared? Every time, somebody seems threatened, everybody feels they cannot cope with this  competition, they have to find a way to eliminate that competitor.  Sometimes, it is not only for the purpose of eliminating the competitor,  but just for the purpose of planting doubts in people’s minds. Did we do the wrong thing? Could this man have forged his certificate? What kind of person is this that forged his certificate? Just to plant doubts in people’s minds. But I am satisfied again because I called him and asked questions. I was satisfied with the answers that I got and the court will tell us whether he was right or wrong. We are still talking about Umo Eno; he is a deviation from a career politician. Do you think that is going to be an advantage for him? Was it a disadvantage for me to come from the private sector fresh into politics? The only time I did a political thing was in 1994 to 1995 when I went to a constitutional conference because this parliamentary system had always been with me and I went because of the fact that what we got as derivation was nothing.  There was one time we had one percent derivation until President Babangida came. He didn’t want to change that one percent but he then went and created OMPADEC to bring another three percent, adding to the one percent to make it four percent. I was hurt by that. I decided, you cannot have this mineral here and what the people here are getting is four percent. So, I went to fight for an increase in  derivation and thank God we got it. I went to fight for a change in the system. We didn’t quite get it. So, I came into politics and said since I couldn’t get it from outside politics, let me see if I can get within politics. That is why by God’s grace I was able to achieve some of the things that I achieved. And I see Umo Eno coming in from the private sector bringing the same sort of thinking, same sort of zeal and the same sort of abilities that God gave me the grace to bring to governance when I came. So, I say It is a tremendous advantage. The current governor Udom Emmanuel is toeing the path of industrial revolution. Do you see Pastor Umo Eno going in that line as well? Earlier in this discussion, I mentioned the continuity aspect which Lagos State has enjoyed.  I also mentioned the fact that what we see in Umo Eno  is the willingness to accept the past and build on it. You want to advise him to do that? Not necessarily advise; if somebody is willing to listen as I have emphasized and ask questions. Let me remind you of an incident. It was during Christmas. It was just before I left the office. My successor had already been elected. And we had a  thanksgiving service for him at the Catholic Pro-cathedral which was presided over by Bishop Ekuwem. And Ekuwem said he did not like politicians speaking in his church but that he will just give Obong Attah and Godswill Akpabio the opportunity to say a few words to the people of Akwa lbom because one is handing over to the other. I made only one sentence, I said “I will like my successor to know that I am out of office but not out of ideas Anytime he calls me, I will provide him with the benefit of my ideas”,  and I sat down. So I see Umo Eno being in a position to recognise and being willing to call on me and others to provide those ideas but it is his responsibility to accept or reject and to execute. Apart from the ability to continue with development  efforts of the past, has Umo Eno presented a detailed blueprint for the development of Akwa Ibom to you and what are the details of that blueprint? He is the candidate. He is  the one to tell me the details of his blueprint. But I can say yes, he has done that. He said to me he has put together a book and I have taken a look at it so that we can modify or subtract. He has the humility to do that and we are still looking at it. But I cannot give you the details. He is the one to tell you what those are. What is the next level for Akwa Ibom State? I have examined certain things and I have decided that given our  population and land mass, we cannot pretend that we are going to be a large agricultural state because we are not going to large plantations. Cities are running into each other; we have pressure on land and so on. But there is still a lot we can do on rural agriculture and so on. So, our future lies in technology. So I started a Science Park. Somebody came and stopped it. I started university of technology, and somebody came and stopped it. It is very sad but I still believe that the future lies in technology because if you know the amount of money that India makes from just  writing programmes for companies, you will be amazed. The other day, there was a young Nigerian that sold his IT idea for $3 billion that they paid him. So, that is what I was aiming for. We sent 72  young Akwa Ibom graduates to Canada to study IT so that they could come and be the pioneer staff of that Science Park. None of them came back because the park disappeared by our own indiscretion  and they have been picked up and they are making names for themselves.  Future lies in  technology. That is why I will give you another quote. I have told you about Winston Churchill, not picking a quarrel with the past. The future belongs to those who can see possibilities before they become commonplace. I saw a lot of the future even before it became commonplace but my footsteps were not followed. What fatherly advice do you have for Akwa Ibom people, especially, the younger generation? Simple! Don’t think that you are smarter than your fathers because  what the old man can see sitting down, if you climb palm tree, you cannot even see it. Have respect for your elders.  Listen to what they have to say and don’t  think you are smarter than them. Final word is that I am happy that I come from Akwa Ibom. I am happy that I am still in a position to talk to you as I am doing. Believe me, if we can build on the past the future is limitless.