By Chinelo Obogo, Lagos The Chairman of the National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE), Arik Air chapter, Mudi Muhammad, has felicitated with Muslim faithful in the aviation sector as they celebrate Eid el-Kabir. In a statement, he commended the pilots and engineers in the airline for the hard work they have put in to move the company forward and also urged the management to reciprocate their gesture by ensuring that staff welfare is a top priority. “On this joyous occasion of Eid ul-Adha, I want to felicitate with every member of NAAPE and the entire Arik air family and wish them a happy Sallah and Eid Mubarak. “I will like to use this opportunity to commend the immense contribution of NAAPE( Arik branch) to the progress witnessed by Arik Air. In more than four years since the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) took over the affairs of the airline, NAAPE has proven to be one of the finest groups of professionals as demonstrated by the unshakeable dedication to duty even in the face of increased work responsibilities, especially during a peak period when passengers load has increased considerably. “It has therefore become imperative for Arik air management to duly recognise our efforts to the success of the company. So I will want to call on the management to upgrade and also promote every pilot and engineer that is eligible for promotion. I want to also appreciate the important contribution of other sister unions like the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE) and the Air Transport Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSAN). These unions together help facilitate and coordinate the smooth running of the operation. “Let me use this medium to say thank you to all pilots and engineers in Arik Air for the effort they put in to keep the airline moving forward. My fellow comrades, you are the best and I appreciate you all your endeavours in moving our great company forward. To the management, we appreciate you too, like it is said, to who much is given, much is expected. We have given you our hard work and patience, so we hope that you will understand to show more concern in making our welfare your number one priority,” he said.