From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called on the youths to obtain their permanent voters’ cards (PVCs), so that they can vote in the 2023 elections to put an end to the alleged bad governance of the All Progressives Congress (APC). PDP acting National Chairman, Umar Damagun, made the call, yesterday, at a press conference to herald a sensitisation march by the party to mobilise Nigerians to participate in the ongoing voter registration exercise. He said the current strike by members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) as well as insecurity ravaging the country were as result of bad governance. “As you can see in this country, most of our youths today are idle. What is the course? Bad governance. How do we change that? Go get your PVCs. Go out there and sensitise people, let them come out en masse. All these ASUU strikes that we see, unemployment, banditry and what have you are all due to bad governance. How do you change bad governance? It us to use your votes and act now. “You have to go out there, get people informed, let them come out and get their PVCs so that we vote out this senseless government that has no direction. “If you look at them, they don’t even have the mind to initiate this kind of thing. What they are thinking about is that in 2023, they will come and buy you off and continue to labour you,  leave you at home, close down your schools and allow you to enter banditry. It is up to you now to go out there and get your PVCs.” Similarly, the PDP National Youth Leader, Mohammed Suleiman, decried the state of affairs and called on Nigerians to ensure they register to vote. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video “Indeed, we can no longer deny or pretend that we are now at the lowest point in our national life. The youths of our country have become weary of the future. It is on this note that we call on all Nigerians to go out and get their PVCs because this is the only tool to unseat them (the government). “The rate of insecurity is alarming and calls for urgent national attention. Ladies and gentleman, the Nigerian students have been out of school for over five months, with no solution in sight. The APC-led Federal Government has paid deaf ear to the plight of the Nigerian students, thereby forcing them to roam about the streets and become vulnerable to negative tendencies. It is, therefore, imperative for the Nigerian youths to go out and get their permanent voters’ cards in order to use their votes to unseat the wicked APC-led Federal Government,” he said.