From Magnus Eze, Enugu The Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), yesterday, said that pro-Biafra agitators were not keen about who emerges Nigeria President next year. The group said that it was banal of anybody to try to link the Presidential candidate of Labour Party in the coming election to pro-Biafra agitators. Leader of MASSOB, Uchenna Mdau stated these in his reaction to allegation by Sheikh Ahmad Gunmi that agitation for Actualization of Biafra State had subsided because of Obi’s presidential bid. Madu described Gumi’s assertion as hypocritical, noting that instead, Islamic cleric had been in the vanguard for unleashing mayhem and terrorism in the country through his nudging of the Boko Haram insurgents, bandits and killer Fulani herders. Madu was categorical that the core objective of pro-Biafra groups was the self-determination of their people through the actualization and restoration of the sovereign state of Biafra. He further explained that several other persons had contested for the Presidency since September 1999 when MASSOB launched the agitation for restoration of Biafra, and wondered why Obi’s aspiration had become an issue. Madu said: “The statement of Gumi against pro-Biafra agitation is deceiving and full of falsehood. MASSOB and other pro-Biafra agitators have been in the self-determination struggle for Biafra actualization and restoration. We are not clamouring for the occupation of an Igbo man to be Nigeria president. “Our agenda is known, our mission is stated, our position is unshakable and uncompromised and our goal is to actualize an independent state of Biafra through the principles of non-violence. “We can never be cowed or intimidated by the chief patron and negotiator of Fulani terrorist movement ravaging the entire Northern region and rest of Nigeria in pursuit of the agenda of islamising Nigeria. “MASSOB and other pro-Biafra organizations have nothing against Mr Peter Obi and his intentions to save Nigeria from further collapse. He believes in Nigeria, we believe in Biafra. If  Nigerians elect him based on his competency and pedigree as their new president, does it concern MASSOB? It’s not our business. “Mr Peter Obi is not the first person to contest presidential election since September 1999 we started the MASSOB non-violence self- determination struggle. Why attaching him to us now? MASSOB, therefore, advised Shiekh Gumi to explain his role and other Fulani cabals in the terrorist attack and breaking of Kuje prisons in Abuja. The group told the Islamic cleric not to use Obi and pro-Biafra agitation to divert attentions.