The terrorist attack on the advance convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari in Dutsinma, Katsina State, is a bad omen and a wake-up call on the President to rein in the terrorists. That the convoy of the number one citizen of the country could be so callously attacked means no one is safe. It means the terrorists are daring the security agents. Occurring the same day some insurgents attacked the medium-security prison in Kuje, Abuja, shows how deep the country has sunk into the pit of insecurity. The convoy, which included an advance team of security guards, protocol and media officers, was lucky to have escaped without any casualty. Only two people reportedly sustained minor injuries. Earlier, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Aminu Umar, and another police officer were killed in a terrorist ambush in Dutsinma, Katsina State. Umar and his team were said to be on a clearance operation when the terrorists numbering over 300 ambushed and killed them. Events of the past few weeks indicate that the terrorists are having the upper hand.  They have killed and continued to kill innocent people in places like Kaduna, Katsina, Sokoto, Ondo and many others. A few days ago, some bandits ambushed and killed no fewer than 48 people, including 34 soldiers, about eight policemen and at least six locals in Shiroro, Niger State. The security men were responding to a distress call from a mining site in the community when they were ambushed. Some of the miners were also abducted. In seven months under Buhari, over 3,478 people have been killed and 2,256 abducted in Nigeria. In March and April alone, about 606 and 530 innocent people respectively, were reportedly killed in terrorist attacks in the country. This puts a lie to the Federal Government’s often-repeated assertion that the terrorists have been degraded. We need to stop living in denial. We must go back to the drawing board to find out where and how the rain started beating us. One major problem is that our borders are too porous, as all manner of people troop into the country unhindered. Dangerous and sophisticated weapons are smuggled into the country with ease. Although government has managed to purchase some weapons, money budgeted for the purchase of weapons is largely not well accounted for. The other day, the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) reportedly uncovered about N1.85 billion in cash meant for the purchase of arms and ammunition in someone’s house in Abuja. In March 2021, the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, alleged that funds running into billions of naira meant for the purchase of arms and ammunition under immediate past service chiefs was missing. He said the president would probe the matter. So far, the outcome of that probe (if any) remains unclear.       Already, some foreign nations have warned their citizens against travelling to some places in Nigeria. Foreign direct investments, which we desperately need, will be a mirage if the situation persists. The 2023 general election will also be in jeopardy. It is given that the primary responsibility of any government is the protection of life and property. The Nigerian state, therefore, cannot abdicate this responsibility to non-state actors. We call on the Federal Government to engage the terrorists in a full-scale war. It can seek foreign help if need be. This is the time to fully deploy the Tucano fighter jets that were recently purchased from the United States. This is the time to increase the numerical strength of the police and other security agencies. The security agencies also need to be well equipped and trained to be able to match the firepower of the terrorists. There is need for intelligence sharing among the security agencies. It is appalling that the Katsina attacks could happen without prior knowledge of the security agencies. Hence, it is not surprising that President Buhari expressed disappointment in the nation’s intelligence system in relation to attack at Kuje prison. The President should, however, go beyond expressing disappointment and condemning the terrorist attacks. Let him totally overhaul the security system. On assumption of office, Buhari promised to tackle insecurity, fight corruption and fix the economy. He should strive to achieve them.   Besides, he should order the arrest and prosecution of all those alleged to have diverted money meant for the purchase of arms and ammunition. Whoever is found guilty must be summarily dealt with. Above all, the President needs to motivate the soldiers and other security agents. Their entitlements must be paid in full when due. The security situation in Nigeria has become an emergency and we can never progress as a country if it is not adequately tackled.