From Rose Ejembi, Makurdi The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has lamented the continued spate of insecurity across the country, stressing that it has now reached a stage where threats of attacks are no longer speculative. Chairman, CAN, Benue State, Rev. Akpen Leva, stated this yesterday, at the end of the seven-day interdenominational church service organised in collaboration with the state government, to pray and fast for the challenges confronting the nation. “We have reached a stage where threats of attacks no longer remain speculative. If you hear of threats of attacks on a given community, it certainly happens,” Leva said. He decried the worsening insecurity in the country, regretting that no one sleeps with his two eyes closed any longer and, therefore, urged all christians to remain vigilant and ready to defend themselves at all times, so as not to be taken unawares. “Security affects everybody, so we shouldn’t submit ourselves to be killed by agents of the devil. Remember that only the living will worship God. When you are killed, you will no longer worship him. Always protect yourself with legitimate means,” he counselled. On his part, Governor Samuel Ortom, who was represented by the Chief of Staff (CoS), Dr. Tivlumun Nyitse, commended the church for its sustained support to his administration since inception, over seven years ago.  The governor blamed the inability of his administration to pay workers salaries as and when due on the inability of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to remit funds to the federation account, as well as the low income generation which, he noted, is as a result of worsening insecurity in the state.  He charged Christians to rise up and defend themselves against invaders whose main agenda, he said, is to take over their God-given land from them. Ortom, who decried the reintroduction of the Water Resources Bill, currently before the National Assembly, vowed that his administration will continue to resist the bill.