From Priscilla Ediare, Ado Ekiti Prophet Ade Ologbonyo, the Planter of Christ Apostolic Church, Boanerges Assemblies, has alerted the federal government and security agencies of a supposed plot by terrorists to launch attacks on three major airports in the country, urging authorities to urgently do everything necessary to avert the attacks. Ologbonyo, who said he was not out to scare anyone, as he was “saying the mind of God”, made the claim in a 13-minute Facebook, explaining that God revealed the scary prophecy to him after a 63-day fasting and prayer session. According to the Christian minister, God revealed to him that Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, Kaduna International Airport, Kaduna State and Murtala International Airport, Lagos State are targets of attack, saying “what looks like a bomb blast caused people to run from pillar to post.” The cleric, who prayed to God to reveal the secrets and identities of those who are planning the attack, advised those at the helms of affairs to pay attention to the call, urging President Muhammadu Buhari, state governors, security agencies, traditional leaders to take proactive measures to prevent the attacks, while religious leaders irrespective of their faiths should pray fervently to God to intervene. He added that the international community should also arise and take note. “I have been on 63 days fasting and prayers. I’m not the kind of prophet that gives or reveals what God says because of popularity or fame. Anyone God has not announced that is announcing himself would become a tragedy,” he said. “What I saw this morning was so scary to me. I saw an attack on Nigerian airports and it caused a lot of disarray. “It looked like a bomb blast and people were running from pillar to post. It was as if the bombing was being shifted from one airport to another; from Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport to Kaduna Airport and Murtala International Airport and it was very bloody. “Those at the helm of affairs should take note of this, particularly these three airports. They should know that there is a plan for an attack on Nigerian airports. I’m not here to scare anyone, I’m only saying the mind of God. God usually sends His prophet in order for things not to be in disarray. The incident will soon happen if care is not taken. Security agencies should take note of this. Nigerian Army, DSS and the Police should take note of this. Let all Christians arise and pray. The Muslims should also pray. God revealed this secret because He doesn’t want it to happen.” Recall that months before the Owo Catholic Church massacre in Ondo State, Prophet Ologbonyo had given a prophecy that such an attack was imminent.