The Commissioner of Police for the Osun state Governorship election, Mr. Okoro Julius Alawari has said that there has been an ‘Operation show of force” by the policemen and other security agencies to send signal to the hoodlums to steer clear from the election and give the people confidence  that their safety are guaranteed before, during and after the election. He said he arrived in Osun State on June 26, 2022 and took over from the Commissioner of Police, Osun State Police Command, Mr. Wale Olokode, saying, he was presently in charge of the election, while waiting for the DIG, AIGs  and CPs for the election. “I have addressed the  Divisional Police Officers, (DPO’s) and Area Commanders in the Command on how to conduct themselves before, during and after the election and I told them to display professionalism when carrying out the election duty. “We have started “Operation show of force” by our police personnel and other security agencies daily to tell the people we are totally ready for the election”, CP Okoro said. He said he had meetings with the INEC officials and sister security agencies on how to ensure  free, fair and credible election on July 16, 2022. We have identified the flash points, where we took as a threat points and we have studied the scenes and we studied how to manage the situation. Right now, we have deployed our policemen to all the flash points to make sure everywhere is calm”. CP Okoro said he had a good deliberation with the politicians across party lines in the state. “We held meetings with all political parties and we have warned them against any violence. We told them to shun hate speech and be ready to comply with the rules and regulation of the INEC and the security agencies. We have warned them to talk to their followers to make sure that their rallies are peaceful. We give all the political parties a level playing ground to enjoy their campaign rallies but not with bitterness. During their campaigns, we have strategised and  our police personnel have been deployed to all  the flashpoints and every nooks and crannies of the  state  to make sure that the presence  of the police personnel and other security agencies will enable them to conduct themselves well and have a peaceful election. “The Inspector General of police, Usman Baba Alkali has tasked our officers to conduct themselves well in this election, before, during and after the election. The police personnel will escort the INEC officials from the voting Centres to collation Centres and down to the INEC office”, he said CP Okoro advised all parents to tell their children not to allow themselves to be used for any violence or any criminality during the election.