From Romanus Ugwu, and Molly Kilete, Abuja The Federal Government has beefed up security within the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) following a security alert on fresh terrorists’ attacks by the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). The NSCDC FCT Command in a letter dated July 8, signed by Peter Maigari and addressed to the Permanent Secretary, FCTA, had alerted of renewed threats of attacks by ISWAP terrorists on targets within the nations capital. The letter which stated that ISWAP had declared war on Christians in Nigeria has gone viral creating fear among FCT residents, especially Christian faithful. In the letter, titled “Renewed threat of attack by ISWAP”, NSCDC wrote: “Certified intelligence reveals that members of the decimated terrorist group ISWAP have concluded plans to launch more coordinated and spontaneous attacks on selected targets within the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and had declared war against Christians in Nigeria. “Intelligence abounds that ISWAP terrorist group has claimed responsibilities of the Tuesday July 5, 2022 attack on Kuje Medium Security Custodial Centre, releasing their adherent members. “The foregoing is to enable them hibernate in targeted communities (FCT) and re-strategise for further terrorist activities, especially on soft targets to keep the agenda of the group alive to the public.” The report added: “Taking into consideration the recent terrorist attack on Kuje medium security custodial centre good two hours without any security resistance indicated their readiness to carry out more coordinated attacks in selected cities/towns, security formations, schools, and worship centres in FCT, hence the released of their members for more formidable squad to achieved their dastardly act.” In its tecommendation, the NSCDC, wrote: “Against this backdrop, it is advised that counter measures be emplaced, and there is need to review existing security measures around such targets and other sensitive facilities with security formations, in FCT to frustrate the planned attack. This report is submitted for your information and necessary action.” Reacting to the leakage of the intelligence, Civil Defence spokesperson, Shola Odumosu, expressed disappointment, warning that the person who leaked the letter from the Permanent Secretary’s office should be held responsible for the ripple effect it has generated. “Every security agency gives intelligence report to the concerned authority from time to time and this one from the NSCDC is not an exception. The leakage of letter is not good for the battle the government is fighting against the insurgence,” he frowned. Though police sources told Daily Sun that the NSCDC has been condemned for issuing the statement, which is considered to be out of its purview, Daily Sun observed increased security presence within the FCT with the military, police, DSS and other security agencies embarking on series of patrols to ward off possible attacks. Heavy deployment of  police was also sighted at soft targets like churches, mosques, recreational and business centres, yesterday. A police source said the deployment was to forestall what happened at St. Francis’ Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State. Daily Sun also learnt that the police working in partnership with the military, DSS, hunters and vigilance groups, have also launched series of raids with the FCT  to rit of miscreants and other criminal elements. “The police have embarked on constant raid on criminal hotbeds in the Abuja. The raid which is carried out on daily basis is being led by the Commissioner of Police, Babaji Sunday,  and is yielding positive results with several suspects arrested so far,” the source said. The source gave names of some the hotspots to include Zuba, Gwagwalada, Gwagwa, Karmo, Jabi, Bwari, Dutse, Jabi, Lugbe, Nyanya, Kugbo, Mararaba, Mpape, Karshi, Massaka, Abaji, Utako market, Apo, Bwari, among other spots. “Security agencies are also on surveillance in villages in the area councils where bandits have continued to carry out attacks on innocent villagers,” he said. FCT Police Command Public Relations Officer, Josephine Adeh, confirmed the raid saying it was part of measures to checkmate the activities of criminals. “…We have beefed up security in worship nod recreational centres in and around Abuja…so we are at alert we have beefed up security as expected. Our advice to resident is that they should be alert, they should not be scared seeing the massive deployment. It is just a security measures that we are taking,” she said. Similarly, the commander Guards Brigade, Nigerian Army, Brigadier General Usman, called on resident continue to be security conscious and report any suspicious movement to the security agencies.