By Monica Iheakam Barely 24 hours to the commencement of the World Championship in Oregon USA, two Nigerian track stars, Alaba Akintola and Ezinne Abba have pulled out of the competition, which starts on Friday July 15, 2022. The two athletes based in the USA had qualified for the championship but will not compete due to what they termed as negligence and politics from the Athletics Federation of Nigeria. Akintola, a Middle Tennessee State University junior, had qualified in the 100m with a Personal Best (PB) of 10.04s and 20.26s in the 200m. He was in Benin, Edo State for the National Trials in June, where he won the 100m silver in 10.09s and he helped team Nigeria clock a Season’s Best of 38.35s- the fastest the team has run in a long time. The Tennessee based sprinter took to his Instagram to share this disappointing news. “Sadly, I’m going to be out of the world championship after I qualified for 3 events (100M, 200M & 4X100M) not because I failed dope but because of politics because that’s what it looks like. They hid under the umbrella of OCT (out of competition test), meaning I didn’t submit my whereabouts or whatever (been on this shit since march).  “They already cost me a major championship (that’s their plan) and I knew they knew what they were doing/did. Thanks to everyone that cared and showed love, I really appreciate it. Stepping stone to greater things” University of California, Berkeley graduate, Ezinne Abba just like Akintola will not be competing at this year’s World Championships. She was at the National trials at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin and helped Nigeria qualify for the 4x100m clocking 43.43s alongside Tobi Amusan, Rosemary Chukwuma and Grace Nwokocha. Abba said that 40mins before her flight to Oregon, she got a call informing her that she will not be competing anymore. The devastated athlete took to her Instagram to shed light to her plight. “It has always been my dream to compete for Nigeria on the world stage. But despite reaching the world standard, flying to Nigeria alone, switching my allegiance from the USA and mentally/physically preparing myself after my first ever hamstring strain.”