From Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State governor, Nyesom  Wike, has rewarded each player of Rivers United Football Club with cash $20, 000 each and two weeks visit to Madrid, Spain, following their win in the 2021/2022 Nigeria Professional Football League. Members of the Rivers United Football Club, their coach and management have also been conferred with the State’s prestigious ‘Governor Medal Service Award’. During a colourful reception held at the Government House, Port Harcourt on Thursday, Governor Wike, who acknowledged the team’s sacrifice, determination and hard work throughout the 2021/2022 league season, rewarded each player with $20,000. “Each of you will go home with $20,000. For me, you deserve more than that, but because of the economy. If not, you deserve more than this. You have done well, and let me tell you if you qualify in the group stage of this CAF (Confederation of African Football) competition, we will double it for you.” Governor Wike has, meanwhile, directed the Commissioner of Sports, Chris Green, to arrange for a two weeks training session for Rivers United team in Madrid, Spain. The governor explained that the government and people of Rivers State were delighted that Rivers United won the coveted NPFL trophy.  “I am not surprised because I saw your dedication and commitment and I knew that he who works hard, God will always give him the support to emerge victorious.” Governor Wike urged Rivers United players to strive to be physically and psychologically prepared in order to excel during the Confederation of African Football competition next season. “You need to be prepared psychologically in order to face other competitors. We are talking about Africa, not West Africa. So, you have such huge task. You must be prepared in order to achieve. And so, on our own as government, government must do everything humanly possible to encourage you.” Speaking at the occasion, the Rivers State Commissioner of Sports, Chris Green, explained that Rivers United did not only win league season in style, they broke all the records. Green, who attributed Rivers United victory to governor’s immense support, said the club had the first and third highest goal scorers, best coach and goalkeeper in the league.