By Bianca Iboma-Emefu  Gloria Ofili, an SS3 student of Word of Faith Group of Schools, Benin City, Edo State, emerged the winner of Clan quiz competition, organized by Face of Niger Delta Cultural Pageant (FONDCUP), recently. The event, a pet project of the first runner-up of FONDCUP pageant, Miss Faith Etinosasere Iguodala, is meant to celebrate cultural heritage of the Niger Delta region. Iguodala said the competition was initiated to promote, advocate, create awareness and project the rich cultures of the Niger Delta region among students in senior and junior secondary schools. Explaining the modalities, she said the quiz competition focused on values, history, culture and tradition of the region that is gradually going into extinction. According to her, through the competition, “We celebrate Niger Delta culture and culture is an agent of creativity and social change.”                              “This year’s maiden edition was fun-filled, educative and entertaining because the contestants were enlightened on the fact of our history as a region. “The Niger Delta region is blessed with rich traditions, culture and values that the children need to know, learn and understand their importance,” she stated. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Precious Solomon-Essien, an SS2 student of Fulga International College, Mbiabam, Akwa Ibom State, took second position and got a cash gift of N150,000, while Favour Edem, an SS2 student from Eternal Seed Secondary School, Ikono, Akwa Ibom State, tied with Justice Joseph, an SS1 from Fulga International College, both placed third position and went home with N100,000 each.  Convener of FONDCUP, Elizabeth Era, lauded the students for their efforts in promoting the cultural heritage of Niger-Delta region and promised that next edition would be better.