From Laide Raheem, Abeokuta Ex-President Chief Olusegun Obasanjo rode a commercial tricycle (“Keke”) on Saturday to demonstrate the safety of the popular means of transportation, urging young people to embrace every opportunity with hardwork and dedication. Obasanjo personally rode the Keke from the premises of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL), through Kuto under a bridge, amidst greetings and jubilation by onlookers along the road. The onlookers expressed surprise at the former president riding the Keke, a reaction Obasanjo said was fuelled by wrongful societal classification of all Keke riders as miscreants and the tendency of young people avoiding the virtue of starting small. The president, along the route, stopped and picked a male passenger to demonstrate that riding in the tricycle is safe if used properly and for people to learn how to start small and grow their craft. Speaking after returning to the OOPL premises, Obasanjo said he embarked on riding the Keke to demonstrate to the people that there was nothing bad in riding the Keke and using same for commercial purposes. He said with tricycles and other small-scale businesses, youths can be self-employed and ultimately, become economically independent. He said when he recently distributed 85 Keke given to young people across the nation, he received some feedback that made riding Keke look like an inappropriate gift, even as some wondered if that was the best for young people. “There is nothing wrong with young people starting small. The Keke is secure and safe when handled professionally and with discipline. In fact, you can plan your business the way you wish and earn income that you can deploy to other investments. And if you are able to get a second one, you can give that to someone else. So you become self-employed and you have also employed somebody,” Obasanjo stated. He disclosed that he had remained committed to the economic empowerment of young people through initiatives that can generate employment, pointing out that “this is how we can increasingly address unemployment in Nigeria”. “I have always had a passion for youths, empowerment and employment. When I started establishing farms, do you think I can run the farm alone? “The people I employed on the farms, some of them are as educated as PhD. There are veterinary doctors among them, Agric Economists and some people that are well educated. Some of my children have PhDs and are still working with me. “The other time I checked the people that are working with us directly on. our various establishments, we have over 5,000 and most of them are youths. I have always had a passion for youths because there is no substitute for employment”, he added. Expressing delight at riding in the tricycle driven by the ex-president, the symbolic passenger, who identified himself as Lamidi, said the day would remain memorable for the rest of his life.