From Gyang Bere, Jos   The gubernatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Plateau State, Caleb Mutfwang, a lawyer, has assured that the party will carry everybody along ahead of the 2023 general election. He expressed optimism that the party will work collectively by reconciling with all members to go into the general election as a united and formidable family. Mutfwang disclosed this yesterday at the State PDP secretariat in Jos during the presentation of certificate of return to all candidates of the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. “I am appealing to us to know that once primaries are over, every candidate that has emerged, irrespective of our persuasion automatically becomes your candidate. If you are a true and genuine party faithful, you will support every candidate that has emerged from President, Senator and House of Representatives to House of Assembly. “I want to appeal to all of us, that none of us loves any candidate more than the other; we all love our candidates and we will stand by our candidates, we will work for our candidates, we will deliver our candidates and by the grace of God we will smile to victory together. “Anywhere I have entered since my emergence, I have campaigned for all our candidates. Of course there will still be issues but some of them cannot be resolved overnight but we are working hard to resolve all the issues so that we will go into the election as a family.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. He expressed commitment towards resolving all outstanding issues within the party and promised to continue to give listening ear to all matters in the spirit of Justice and fairness to all. The state Chairman, Hon. Chris Hassan, described the primary election in the state as a hectic exercise but expressed gratitude to God that the state conducted one of the freest and fairest primaries.