Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, yesterday took the civic engagement to the All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAM) and urged them to vote for him to enable build on the achievements he had so far recorded since assuming office. Represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, the governor appealed to the electorate not to be deceived by ‘desperate’ politicians. Oyetola, who noted he had been serving the state diligently since the beginning of his administration, said those who lacked administrative capacity must not be allowed to truncate the development the state is currently witnessing. “I desire to win the July 16 election with a wide margin. The electorate is on my side, my achievements are there to speak for me and God is willing to crown my efforts,” he said. Oyetola also appealed to the electorate to stop selling their votes, adding that they should not allow those who have declared to win the election with dollars and euros, to disrupt the steady growth Osun is recording. He said, “I want to appeal to the electorate to resist the temptation of selling their votes to desperate politicians. Osun is not for sale, and neither are the people of the state for sale. Those who are bragging around with dollars to win the election have nothing to offer. “They are only desperate to get the power without anything tangible to offer the state and we must not allow them to have access to our treasury.” The governor also warned politicians against violence, adding that election should not be seen as a do-or-die affair. He said anyone caught perpetrating violence before, during and after the election will be dealt with in line with the law. “Osun is known for peace and we should not allow anything, nor even the election to truncate the peaceful atmosphere. The election should not be seen as a do-or-die affair, but rather as an avenue to serve humanity.”, he said. He disclosed that his government had set aside 1,000 hectares of land for farming to boost food sufficiency and make the state the food basket of the Southwest zone. The initiative, according to him, is to rejuvenate the agricultural sector by making it more attractive and productive to farmers, particularly the young ones. In his remarks, AFAN Chairman, Mr Suleiman Araokanmi commended the governor for his various interventions in the agriculture sector in the state, pledging to support the re-election of Oyetola.