From Lateef Dada, Osogbo and Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja Osun State Governor-elect, Senator Ademola Adeleke, and his deputy, Prince Kola Adewusi, yesterday, received their Certificate of Return from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). INEC’s National Commissioner supervising Osun, Ogun and Oyo states, Prof. Kunle Ajayi, who presented the certificates at INEC office, Osogbo said the presentation was done in line with the provision of Section 72 (Subsection 1) which mandates INEC to issue a sealed Certificate of Return to the governor-elect and deputy governor-elect within 14 days after the declaration of result by the Returning Officer. He commended the people of the state on the peaceful way and manner in which they conducted themselves during the election. Adeleke dedicated his victory to his late brother and first executive governor of the state, Senator Isiaka Adeleke, every indigene of the state, all his supporters, friends and families. “This victory would not have been possible but for the goodwill of the patriotic men young and old, who worked hard to make sure we reclaim our stolen mandate. I am overwhelmed by your love and support and I do not take this trust you have bestowed on me for granted. Our state has now turned to a new page and we can now look forward to a bright future and a path for progress and prosperity for our people.” PDP lauds judgment The party has expressed delight over the judgment of the Court of Appeal, Akure Division, which affirmed Adeleke as its  rightful candidate  for the July 16 governorship poll. Omooba Dotun Babayemi had sued the PDP, INEC and Senator Adeleke, claiming the authentic flag bearer of the party in the state governorship election.But, the appellate court dismissed the case on technical grounds. The party in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, said the judgment had put to rest all contestations regarding the validity of the candidacy. Ologunagba said  the judgment further validated the will and aspiration of the people of Osun. “The judgment is a firm confirmation that the Osun  governorship primaries was transparently conducted by the Sen. Iyorchia Ayu-led National Working Committee (NWC). “It also affirmed that it was conducted in strict compliance with the provisions of the PDP Constitution and Electoral Guidelines as provided by the Electoral Act and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended).” Ologunagba commended the judiciary for its courage, noting that the judgment has further restored the confidence of Nigerians on the judicial system and the processes of the PDP. But Babayemi has said the judgment was being evaluated to know the next line of action on the matter. In a statement issued by his media office, he maintained that unless some factors that necessitated the litigation were looked into by the party hierarchy, he might explore redress at the apex court of the land, the Supreme Court. “We are evaluating all available options and shall act in the best interest of our people. “Rest assured that for the common good of our party and the people of the state, we shall decide the best way forward, including a possible appeal at the Supreme Court which is the highest court of the land,” Babayemi said.