Introduction Walking with God and working for God can indeed be a joyous experience. God chose the people and the nation Israel to be the masterpiece through which He displayed His greatness, awesomeness and love for mankind. Faith in God was one of the ways by which the people demonstrated this relationship. Faith is important in walking with God – Hebrews 11:6. At different times, prayer was a major expression of the people’s faith in God and through the agency of prayer, the people individually and collectively experienced the transforming power of God. God called the nation of Israel to a walk with Him. It started through the call of Abram (name later changed to Abraham) who responded in obedience to the divine call – Genesis 12:1-4. To honour Abraham’s step of faith and obedience, God instituted an everlasting covenant with him which God promised to make him a father of many nations; make him exceeding fruitful and sustain the covenant with generations yet to come – Genesis 17:1-9. Today, the covenant is literally fulfilled. When we learn to step out in faith and obedience to God’s command, great blessings will follow. Here, we see the successive instances of generations of Israelites – those who heeded the invitation to prayer and the result they got: Abraham (Genesis 22:7-8). God told Abraham to take his son Isaac and go to the land of Moriah and offer Isaac for a burnt offering. As typical of Abraham (a man of great faith), he embarked on the journey with his son without questioning God. While on the way, Isaac asked his father, “Behold the fire and the wood: but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?” Abraham’s response was a simple prayer of faith: “My son, God will provide Himself a lamb for a burnt offering.” So they went, both of them together. God indeed provided Himself a lamb for a burnt offering as the Angel of the Lord called Abraham out of heaven and Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw behind him a ram caught in the thicket by his horns. Abraham then went and took the ram and offered it for a burnt offering instead of his son. At another instance, Abraham sent his servant to go and get a wife for his son Isaac. Abraham prayed for the servant as he was sent on the journey saying, “The Lord God of heaven, which took me from my father’s house, and from the land of my kindred, and which spake unto me, and that sware unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land; he shall send his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my son from thence.” Genesis 24:7. God indeed answered Abraham’s prayer and prospered the servant’s journey. Genesis 24:12-15, 27 says, “And he said O Lord God of my master Abraham, I pray thee, send me good speed this day, and shew kindness unto my master Abraham. Behold, I stand here by the well of water; and the daughters of the men of the city come out to draw water: And let it come to pass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink; and she shall say, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: let the same be she that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac; and thereby shall I know that thou hast shewed kindness unto my master. And it came to pass, before he had done speaking, that, behold, Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham’s brother, with her pitcher upon her shoulder. 27. And he said, Blessed be the Lord God of my master Abraham, who hath not left destitute my master of his mercy and his truth: I being in the way, the Lord led me to the house of my master’s brethren.” God is faithful. He answers prayers which come from a genuine heart. Jacob. His life was full of intrigue. Rebekah his mother was barren for some years and Isaac (her husband) had to intreat the Lord for her. Consequently, she gave birth to twins – Esau and Jacob. Through craftiness Jacob obtained the birthright meant for his brother Esau (Genesis 25:29-34). Later in life when their father Isaac was about to die, he called Esau (the elder of the two) to go to the field and bring meat to him so that he could bless Esau. Jacob, instructed by Rebekah disguised before Isaac and obtained the blessing meant for the firstborn. Esau came in later to discover the plot executed by his brother, Jacob. From that time on. Esau hated his brother and purposed in his heart to kill Jacob (Genesis 27:41). Following the craftiness and disloyalty which Jacob had exhibited towards Esau his brother, he began to live in fear as to how Esau would revenge. He was thus sent to Padanaram to live with Laban, Rebekah’s brother. Having stayed with Laban for many years, Jacob decided to return to Canaan. He was yet confronted with the fear of meeting Esau who he has cheated many years back. His breakthrough and turnaround came when he had a spectacular experience with an Angel of God at Peniel. In solitude, Jacob began to wrestle in prayer with the angelic being. Jacob’s importunity in that encounter led to his name being changed from Jacob (supplanter) to Israel – Genesis 32. A life dedicated to serious and unfeigned prayer will reverse or undo the negative traits associated with a person. Rachel (Jacob’s wife). She expressed great grief for her barrenness (Genesis 30:1-2). Later, God remembered her, hearkened to her and opened her womb (Genesis 30:22-24). Conclusion Prayer changes situations or circumstances. Prayer can bring a person who is in a pit to a hilltop. 1 Samuel 2:8 says, “He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the beggar from the dunghill, to set them among princes, and to make them inherit the throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the Lord’s, and he hath set the world upon them.” We should always come boldly into the presence of God in prayer through His son, Jesus Christ. God is ready to grant breakthrough and turnaround to those who call upon Him out of a pure heart. A Call to take a Decision Beloved, have you entered into personal relationship with Jesus Christ by accepting Him as your Lord and Saviour? If you have not, you need to do so without delay. Inviting and accepting Jesus Christ into your life is the beginning of a glorious and eternally rewarding relationship with God, your Creator. It is a decision you can never regret as you walk with Him faithfully and consistently for the rest of your life. Surrender your life to Jesus Christ today by acknowledging that you are a sinner. God sent Jesus Christ to die for you and as you confess your sins to Him, He will forgive you so that you will not have to be punished for the same. Ask Jesus Christ to cleanse our with His precious blood, deliver you from sin and Satan and empower you by the Holy Spirit to henceforth live above sin and live totally for God from now on. You can write and share your testimony via f_meduoye@yahoo.com