This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From: Ali Abare, Gombe The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) said it has commenced door-to-door distribution of relief materials to internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the North East. The was disclosed, on Monday, by Director General of the agency, Mustapha Yinusa Maihaji, disclosed this while declaring open a four-day workshop on sexual and gender based violence, in Gombe. The move was aimed at curtailing diversion of the materials for private use. Maihaji said the measure became necessary in order to halt the outright diversion of the relief materials, stressing that agency officials now go door to door to deliver relief materials to the IDPs in Maiduguri, Borno State. Represented at the event by Saidu Mini, a deputy director with the agency, Maihaji disclosed that recent Displacement Tracking Matrix produced by the IOM in collaboration with NEMA showed that there are currently 1.7 m internally displaced persons in the North East, out of which 54 percent are women. He noted that in every emergency situation, women and children are often the worst affected and majority of survivors. The NEMA boss lamented that sexual gender-based violence are usually perpetrated by persons who are meant to protect IDPs in camps or non-camps locations, including government officials, security agencies and other humanitarian. He said the need to cater for women and girls in emergence cannot be over emphasised, urging participants to contribute meaningfully to the workshop. In a welcome address, Head of Operations NEMA in Gombe, Abbani Imam Garki, noted that violence against women and girls is one of the most prevalent human rights violations in the world. He commended the organisers of the workshop, the UN Women and NEMA saying there is the need to address gender based violence in humanitarian situations. Technical Adviser on Gender for the UN Women in Gombe, Mrs Rhoda Zira, who represented the Country Director,  urged participants to use the knowledge to be gained during the workshop and to put it to practice to bring about the desired change.