By Chukwudi Nweje The Former director general, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside, yesterday, called on the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State to unite and reposition the party ahead of the 2023 governorship election. “Rebuilding the party and putting her back on winning ways means we must do some things differently and in a more definite manner. It will require humility to listen to each other and understand the perspective of others. However, we can never remove our eyes from the ball. It will mean adopting new systems, and in some cases, a different approach in the party such that they can withstand storms and hiccups.” The 2015 governorship candidate spoke at the state APC stakeholders meeting  against the backdrop of the gale of defections in the party. He, however, pledged to go on a state-wide peace mission to reconcile all aggrieved members. “In the days ahead, together with our candidates, I will join well-meaning leaders of the party to take critical, strategic, unifying, and inspiring actions to lift and galvanise the spirit and morale of the people. We shall go from local government areas to wards listening to you, sharing your aspirations, and working together to achieve our common vision. These engagements will be robust, and it will be all about our party and our state.” Peterside also promised to lead grassroots mobilisation for Bola Tinubu, the APC presidential candidate and his running-mate, Kashim Shettima ahead of the 2023 poll. “It is time we pull together to rebuild the party, draw new strength and march towards our desired destination. That way, some of our party members who left will see reasons to come back and be part of the redemption mission in the State. It is a fact that the strength and acceptability of our party cannot be measured by temporary setbacks. Our grassroots support is massive and remains unshaken. Majority of party members have confidence in the leadership and have remained steadfast knowing that the future is bright.   Our leader, Rotimi Amaechi has taken several steps to steer the party in a more proactive direction. My least expectation is that other leaders rally around him.”