From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday, issued July 15 deadline final warning to political parties to upload the lists and personal particulars of their nominated candidates. It also urged the political parties to scrutinise the list and personal particulars of the candidates they propose to sponsor at the election to avoid any mix-up and duplication of names. In a statement by National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, the commission insisted candidates that emerged from validly conducted primaries would be accepted. Giving update on uploading of list and particulars of nominated candidates, the commission said: “By the timetable and schedule of activities released by the commission, political parties that conducted valid governorship and state Assembly primaries shall upload the list and personal particulars of their nominated candidates between July 1 and 15, 2022. “We urge political parties to scrutinise the list and personal particulars of the candidates they propose to sponsor at the election to avoid any mix-up and duplication of names. Political parties are advised not to wait until the last day before uploading the list and personal particulars of their candidates. “The candidates nomination portal will shut down at 6pm on July 15, 2022. Political parties that have challenges with uploading documents should contact the commission’s help desk, through the dedicated telephone lines or contact the candidate nomination centre at the commission’s headquarters.” On the issuance of certified true copies (CTCs) of documents, the commission noted: “We have been inundated with applications for CTCs of various documents. So far, 186 requests for CTCs, some running into hundreds of pages, have been processed. The commission is working round the clock, including weekends, to attend to all such requests. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “We wish to assure political parties, aspirants, candidates, and all applicants for CTCs that their applications will be treated expeditiously and will be issued in earnest.”    On the continuous voters’ registration (CVR) exercise, it announced that it would continue nationwide pending further directives. “The commission has consistently reiterated its resolve to continue to provide electoral services to the Nigerian people and register all eligible Nigerians that are interested in registering. “The commission has yet again deployed additional machines to areas of pressure and will continue to serve the people of Nigeria. Furthermore, the case at the Federal High Court relating to the terminal date of the CVR came up on Wednesday, June 29, 2022, and based on the request of the commission, the court granted an accelerated hearing and adjourned the matter to Monday, July 4, 2022 for hearing of the substantive matter. The commission will give an update after court hearing next week,” INEC said.