From Sola Ojo, Kaduna A non-governmental organisation (NGO) known as Voter Education Initiatives on Saturday called on Nigerian prospective voters to register and collect their permanent voter’s cards to exercise their civic responsibility in 2023 and subsequent elections. Addressing a press conference at a hotel in Kaduna, Team Leader for the group, Barr Chris Nnoli said the organisation was birthed to educate and enlighten Nigerians as a whole but to specifically call on the Eastern States to understand and appreciate the constitutional provisions which allow them to take part in electoral processes to elect quality leaders. According to him, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has graciously extended the registration period, especially for those who are just clocking in 18 years quickly called on INEC to increase collection points so people don’t get frustrated due to long queues in the existing points. To this end, he called on those who may have relocated or have nearer election points, to visit the nearest INEC office to change and relocate for convenience’s sake. “Additionally, do not do any double registration of PVC as same will not be accepted by the INEC Voter’s System once recognized in the system and where you lost a registered PVC, try and provide to INEC your details with an affidavit from the m court indicating details of loss and personal information. “Note that as a registered voter citizen of this country, your vote counts hence you are required to ensure that you participate in all voting activities without being bought over by politicians in compliance with civic responsibilities of voting. “Where your registered PVC is no longer clear or defaced due to forceful packaging of same, one can equally process a new one. “Note also that registered PVC does not in any way expire and should be used throughout the lifetime of voters in Nigeria. “Additionally, we immensely appreciate INEC’s head for extending the time of voter registration for more time to enable more Nigerians to s participate in the incoming election. That move by INEC is most welcomed and this shows her perfected intentions toward a more fortified and convenient election come 2023. “Generally, we urge all Nigerians, especially our youths to go ahead and ensure that we prepare graciously for the incoming 2023 election after obtaining PVC to bring in leaders that will wonderfully improve the economy, education, employment, agriculture, development aspects of Nigeria on one part and immensely set aside the insecurities in the country on the other part. “We also request INEC to create more PVC collection portions after registration inclusive of the information on when, where and how to collect the PVC to the newly registered or possibly create several units meant for distribution to the various registered voters. “As we go into the 2023 election we shall vehemently avoid any form of selling, buying of votes with politicians on one part and boycotting voter apathy, electoral disturbances, election malpractices etc. on the other part. “Note further that apart from registration and collection of PVC, we shall ensure that we participate during all elections come 2023 and when we cast our votes, we shall endeavour to wait and confirm vote counting before vacating. “Do not just pray for good leaders, learn and take part in their emergence through beinginvolved in balloting”, Nnoli said.