The ancient city of Ijebu Ode came alive on Monday July 11, 2022 with spectacular displays of pomp and pageantry. It was the Ojude Oba Festival, an annual celebration of the rich cultural heritage of Ijebu people. Tagged: ‘The Return of Ojude Oba’ and coming after two years hiatus due to the COVID-19 pandemic, this year’s edition of the festival was energised and refreshed by nation’s beverage giant, Rite Foods Limited. Speaking at the festival, Seleem Adegunwa, Managing Director, Rite Foods, re-affirmed his company’s commitment to the arts, cultural promotion and community development, particularly in areas where it operates. According to him, his company holds the festival in high esteem by paying homage to the paramount ruler of Ijebu Ode, His Royal Majesty, Oba Sikiru Kayode Adetona for being the custodian of the traditional institution of his people, which aligns with his company’s values. “As a company, we are particularly committed to celebrating the rich cultural heritage of peoples and communities, particularly our royal father who bestrides the traditional institution of his people like a colossus. The Awujale has been an undisputed statesman who personifies a courageous, charismatic and reliable leader, which aligns with our values of excellence and integrity at Rite Foods Limited,” he said. The festival committee, which had earlier commended Rite Foods for its commitment to promoting arts and culture through the sponsorship of the festival, also showered encomiums on the company for flooding the town with its array of refreshing Bigi soft drinks, Fearless energy drinks, Rite and Bigi sausages, and the newly launched Sosa fruit drink. Visitors, tourists and guests from all over the world who stormed the ancient city witnessed an age-long cultural celebration characterized by horse riding, gunshots, folkloric and contemporary music, colorful and flamboyant dressings, dances, drumming and competitions, all of which signposted the gaiety and artistic style of the festival.  The Ojude Oba (the King’s forecourt or frontage) is a major festival in Nigeria that began over 100 years ago. It brings together all sons and daughters of Ijebuland in Nigeria and the Diaspora for a carnival-like celebration of the traditional, cultural, spiritual accomplishments and other values of the   Ijebu nation.  During the festival, various age-groups known as the Regberegbes, indigenes, friends and associates from far and near – all in their colourful costumes and riding on horses, through the palace, throng the palace of the Awujale of Ijebuland to pay homage to him amidst prayers and other fun-filled activities.