From Obinna Odogwu, Awka Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, has said ongoing demolition of illegal structures in Onitsha, commercial never centre of the state, would soon be extended to the state capital, Awka as well as Nnewi and Ekwulobia. He said the move was in fulfilment of one of his campaign promises wherein he promised to rebuild the state and make it a clean, liveable and smart megacity that would truly be a home for Ndi Anambra and others. The governor, in a statement by his media aide, Christian Aburime, explained that the demolition of the illegal structures commenced because the two-month notice given to the owners of the affected buildings had expired. “Following the expiration of the more than two months notice beginning from April 2022 served on developers and building owners who built several illegal structures along the waterway in Fegge and environs within Onitsha, Anambra State government has begun the demolition of such structures. “The exercise which is being carried out by a joint government task force, commenced the exercise from Bida Road by Modebe Avenue, Fegge Onitsha. “The affected buildings include Mountain of Holy Ghost Intervention Deliverance Ministries, shops and other perimeter fences “The structures were marked since April, 2022 and all developers and building owners were served notice to remove such illegal structures”, the governor said in the statement. Soludo regretted the manhandling of a popular cleric, Chukwuemeka Ohanaemere, popularly known as Odumeje by security operatives. He said it was never the intention of the government to harass or molest any resident of the state during the ongoing demolition exercise in Onitsha metropolis. A video where the popular cleric was being shoved around by the security operatives during the exercise went viral. “I cannot tell you exactly what led to that. It is very unfortunate that the incident happened. It was never the intention of the government to molest any resident. “Our thinking is that it may be as a result of an altercation between him (Odumeje) and the security operatives who were there to ensure adequate security. The fact that he was being shoved around is very unfortunate”, he said.