By Moses Akaigwe Engages top gear in Nigeria In the first half of the year, GAC Group’s production, wholesale and retail sales all exceeded 1 million vehicles, with double-digit year-on-year growth Production and sales brief for June 2021 released by the GAC Group in China showed that from January to June, it achieved the production of 1.001 million vehicles, wholesale of 1.027 million vehicles and retail of 1.044 million vehicles GAC Group released its production and sales brief for June 2021, which showed that from January to June, GAC Group achieved the production of 1.001 million vehicles, wholesale of 1.027 million vehicles and retail of 1.044 million vehicles. The cumulative production, wholesale and retail all exceeded 1 million vehicles, with year-on-year growth rates of 25.6 percent, 24.5 percent and 25.6 percent, respectively. In the first half of this year, GAC Group strove to minimize the impact of chip shortage and repeated outbreaks of the COVID-19 pandemic, made stable production, promoted sale and launched a number of popular models leading the market boom. Its output growth in the first half of the year was not only higher than the overall level of the automobile industry, but also better than the production growth level of the passenger car industry. In Nigeria, GAC is the fastest growing auto brand, thanks to the high-torque drive of the representative in the country  –  CIG Motors, a part of the CIG Group with Chief Diana Chen as Chairman.. With head office in Lagos, CIG Motors is an auto assembler and marketer which recently launched about 1000 units of its vehicles into the local market, in collaboration with the Lagos State Government. Early in July this year, a colorful, two-pronged ceremony was organised by GAC Motors in Lagos, where it unveiled the all-new edition of one of its finest offerings, the GS4, and inaugurated the ultra-modern G-style complex {featuring, showroom, workshop and customer care}, said to be the first of it’s kind on the continent of Africa. And, predictably, on hand to perform both functions, was a friend of GAC’s and Lagos state governor, Babaide Sabwo-Olu, who commended the tenacity of “the hard-working Chairman of the CIG Group, Chief Diana Chen,” for the success the brand in the country.” Gov. Sanwo-Olu disclosed that as a satisfied user of GAC vehicles even before he became the Chief Executive of Lagos, his love for the brand had spanned many years.   Speaking while unveiling the newly improved, award-winning GS4 crossover SUV, Gov. Sanwo-Olu acknowledged with delight CIG Motors’ plans to further invest in the provision of support facilities for the GAC brand and expand its network to other parts of the country. “GAC vehicles, coming mainly as sedans and sports utility vehicles (SUVs), have been widely accepted in Nigeria, and are being used across the country,” the Lagos state governor remarked He commended CIG Motors for thinking of the interest of it’s customers by investing in the bespoke workshop, commending the Chairman of the company “for doing a good job.” Chef Chen, according to the governor, is “Chinese by spirit, and Nigerian by heart…She is a woman with a lot of energy to support the economy and provide employment. So, it was not difficult for us to partner with her company.” In her remarks, the Chairman of CIG Motors, Chief Diana Chen stated, “We are so proud to open our showroom and workshop, and we plan to open five of such facilities across the country”. She explained that with the opening of the G-Style showroom/workshop, the company is offering the G-Elite, G-Star and G-Family packages to different segments of the society which comes with numerous benefits. Apart from the array of equipment in the workshop proper, the customers waiting section is tastefully furnished with an even more comfortable lounge for VIPs. “With the workshop, we are showing that we are not just selling vehicles to customers. We are making them part of the GAC family by ensuring they get satisfaction from using our vehicles.” GAC, Chen quipped, “is not just a brand,, but has become a Nigerian brand.” Earlier while interacting with the motoring press, the CIG Group Chairman, explained that the workshop is not a run-of-the-mill auto service centre, but a world class facility designed to ensure smooth motoring for GAC users. Introducing the new GS4, the General Manager of CIG Motors, Jubril Arogundade, explained that the vehicle which is in its second generation, comes with ample leg room, three driving modes, amazing comfort and fuel economy as well as seamless navigation system.