By Tosin Ajirire For the founder of First City Monument Bank (FCMB) and Olori Omo-Oba (Head of all Princes) of Ijebuland, Otunba Olasubomi Balogun, his support and involvement in the Ojude Oba Festival for almost 20 years could be attributed to his patriotic zeal and love for the Ijebu people. On Monday July 11, 2022, guests and tourists both from Nigeria and the Diaspora stormed the ancient city of Ijebu Ode to celebrate the rich cultural heritage of the Ijebus through the annual Ojude Oba Festival. Tagged: ‘The Return of Ojude Oba’ and coming after two years interregnum due to the COVID-19 pandemic, this year’s festival was full of pomp and pageantry, as FCMB had fulfilled its pledge to make it a grand and rewarding experience for all. Fielding questions from reporters shortly after the festival, Otunba Subomi Balogun traced the history of Ojude Oba, saying it began during the reign of his ancestor, Oba Adesumbo Tunwase. He recalled: “When Oba Tunwase, my mother’s great grandfather was on the throne, the British missionaries who came to Ijebu Ode asked for his permission to preach the gospel. He did not hesitate to give them the go-ahead. They also asked for permission to baptize the people and he allowed them. But before then, the Islamic religion had come to Ijebu Ode, and not long after, Christianity also came. So, Ojude Oba festival started when the people (Muslims and Christians) started going to the forecourt of Oba Tunwase to pay homage and express their appreciation to him for his kindness and benevolence.” Speaking on his involvement and sponsorship of the festival, Otunba Balogun said as the founder of FCMB, it is only natural that the bank must show interest in anything he’s interested in. “God gave me FCMB and so FCMB must be interested in anything I have interest in. The sponsorship of Ojude Oba is borne out of patriotism. If I created an institution, it is only natural that it benefits my people. As a patriotic Ijebu man, I made sure that as soon as we started building branches, I brought FCMB here and the people have been patronising us. Therefore, the only way we can show appreciation is to participate in the traditional undertakings that bring to the fore the culture and traditions of the Ijebu. Ojude Oba is a unique festival and I am very much involved in it,” he explained. Meanwhile, the Olori Omo-Oba of Ijebuland has vowed to continue throwing his weight behind Ojude Oba, even as he lamented the absence of his contemporaries at this year’s festival.