The assassination of former Japanese Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe, on July 8, 2022, is a huge loss to Japan and the international community. The late Prime Minister was 67 years old at the time of the gruesome murder. In his death, the world has lost a great leader and statesman. Abe was murdered outside the Yamato-Saidaiji Station in Nara City, Nara Prefecture, Japan, by a 41-old unemployed man, Tetsuya Yamagami, a former member of the Japan Maritime Self-Defence Force while delivering a campaign speech for the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) candidate. Unfortunately, efforts to save his life were not successful. He was the first Japanese Prime Minister to be assassinated since 1936.  His assailant, Yamagami, revealed that he had a grudge about a controversial new religious movement, the Unification Church, which he blamed for his mother’s bankruptcy and accused Abe of spreading the church’s influence in Japan. Abe’s assassination has attracted condemnations from world leaders. He believed in his country and gave it all he could, making him the longest serving Prime Minister in Japan’s recent history.  While in office, he was known for his aggressive foreign policy and an economic plan code-named “Abenomics” – a comprehensive policy package aimed at making Japan strong by reviving the economy from the doldrums of deflation, while maintaining fiscal discipline. Even out of office, he wielded enormous influence on the domestic politics of Japan. The late Japanese Prime Minister was a patriot who worked hard to strengthen Japan’s security and international stature. No doubt, his legacy pushed Japan towards more proactive military spending, security and economic policies. In 2007, Abe, along with some politicians, proposed a bill to encourage nationalism and “love for one’s country and hometown” among the Japanese youths. He equally believed in the empowerment of women. In September 2013, Abe made a case for a “society in which all women can shine.” He also set a target that 30 per cent of leadership positions should be held by women by 2020. He shared the vision that greater participation of women in the workforce, especially in leadership roles, could improve Japanese Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and potentially fertility rates.  His administration also introduced measures to expand childcare and legislation to force public and private organisations to publish data on the number of women in their employment and positions held. Abe, the son of former foreign minister Shintaro Abe and grandson of former Prime Minister Nobusuke Kishi, saw his entry into politics as a continuation of the mission by his forebears and a task to make Japan strong, great, and a force to be reckoned with globally. He was elected to parliament in 1993. In 2005, he became the chief cabinet secretary and the Prime Minister in 2006, making him Japan’s youngest post-war Prime Minister. He, however, resigned in September 2007, following series of scandals in his government and heavy loss by his Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) in the upper house elections earlier in July.  Nevertheless, he made a surprising political comeback in 2012 and was re-elected in 2014 and 2017. He stayed in power till 2020 when he resigned on health reasons. Following his demise, world leaders have eulogised Abe, describing him as a remarkable gentleman and an asset to the international community. President Muhammadu Buhari, who commiserated with the family of the late former Prime and the government and people of Japan over his assassination, lauded him for his exemplary leadership. According to him, “Abe will be remembered for his unwavering commitment to strengthening trade and investment between Africa and Japan through various initiatives and partnerships, using the instrumentality of Tokyo International Conference on African Development.” The Japanese leader will also be remembered for his progressive politics, gender equality and sound economic policies. Considering the growing insecurity in the world, leaders must be provided with adequate security even when they quit office. Therefore, the security of the people, including political leaders, must be enhanced at all times. We commiserate with the government and people of Japan over Abe’s death.