Prof. Dauda Yunus, the Chief Executive Officer, Decent Work Labour and Skill Development Institute (DWLSDI) has urged youths to engage in entrepreneurship and skill development to prepare them for future challenges. Yunus, a Professor of Industrial relations and Personnel Management at the Lagos State University (LASU), gave the advice in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday in Lagos. He stressed the need for the youth to come for training in different skills at the centre in other to be gainfully employed after they graduated from schools, colleges and universities. According to Yunus, mass unemployment has created many social and economic problems and aggravated insecurity and crisis in the nation. He advised the government to provide enabling environment for the youth and suggested that government should provide capital for the youth with skills to establish themselves after their higher institution. Yunus said he was challenged to set up the institution from his experience in Germany, where more attention was on skill acquisition and youth development, with formal education. “Germany is one of the most developed economies today that had benefited most from skill and technical education with their formal education and that is why there is enough job there. “DWLSDI was established by me in 2014, as a community service to contribute to youth development and several projects have been done to equip youths. “DWLSDI trains artisans on how to improve their skills, improve youth and workers productivity, entrepreneurial, technical and professional skills. “We promote youth welfare, provide training for youths self-employment and entrepreneurship, youth education. “DWLSDI is to provide literacy education and training for the artisans, craft people and technicians to improve their skills for decent work and living. He said DWLSDI was a youth empowerment and human development institution for improving work and youth wellbeing, skill development and organisational improved performance. “DWLSDI provides methods and strategies to improve income and engage unemployed youths. “The institution provides training on carpentry and joinery, spray painting, sign-writing and artwork, bricklaying and masonry, pipe fitting and plumbing works, auto electric work and motor vehicle mechanical work. He said the Institute also provided training for panel beating, welding and iron bending, computer networking and maintenance and electric wiring and fittings. (NAN)