From Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha Enugu State Labour Party (LP) governorship hopeful Dr Davidson Nnajioffor Nnamani has said that the party is on a salvation mission to bring quality leadership to Enugu State and Nigeria as a whole. Dr Nnamani said that the winds of real change are blowing in Enugu State and across Nigeria, with himself, presidential candidate Peter Obi and the Labour Party as vessels for change. He said in a statement that the Labour Party under the leadership of Obi and running mate Datti Baba-Ahmed, himself and Ocho Obodoeze as deputy governor hopeful, will bring Nigerians good tidings. Dr Nnamani, who hails from Ikem in Isi-Uzo LGA, said that Peter Obi and Datti Baba-Ahmed have impeccable credentials, with himself and his deputy running mate homegrown children who know the pain of regular peiple. “We are on a salvation mission to bring quality leadership to Nigeria and Enugu State. We are experienced professionals in different endeavours,” he stated. “Labour Party is the face of new Nigeria. The face of hope. We are all-encompassing and we will Upgrade Nigeria and Enugu State to a country/state of production, not consumption. “For the youths, the elderly, the unemployed and people without structure, we bring you hope. “For women, we appreciate your importance and productivity. And we will go beyond the standard 35 per cent affirmation to inspire you to unleash your innate energy and creativity. “We are grassroots politicians in touch with the pains and deprivations of our people at grassroots and throughout the 260 electoral wards in Enugu State.” Dr Nnamani offered a brief highlight of what is in the offing for Enugu State: “Water – we will harvest water from available streams in the wards, treat and reticulate to the adjoining communities. “Employment – we will create productivity centres for our youths and the unemployed. We will set them up after graduation and make them productive to train and employ more people. “Social Security – we will create the enabling environment for the elderly to enjoy their retirement in peace and happiness. We will sustain them under respectful conditions instead of abandoning them to die unhappy and do costly burials. “Infrastructure – we will make sure that all the 260 electoral wards are connected by good roads. “Education – we do a massive upgrade of education facilities in Enugu State. In addition, we will partner with the churches to restore our educational institutions back to what they used to be like Anambra State successfully did under Peter Obi. “Business – we will create an enabling environment for the private sector to prosper and provide good jobs for Ndi-Enugu. “Agriculture – we will create an agrocentric economy that will create lots of products, skills and jobs across the agriculture value chain. “Security – we will provide the appropriate environment for the safety of lives, property and businesses” he stated.