The dastardly attack on Kuje Medium Custodial Centre, Abuja, on July 5 by terrorists has, once again, exposed the general insecurity in the country. In the attack carried out by over 300 terrorists, which the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) claimed responsibility, not less than 800 inmates, including 64 Boko Haram terrorists, were freed. However, over 500 of the escapees have been arrested by the police. Before the July 5 attack at Kuje Custodial Centre, it had earlier been attacked on June 24, 2016, when two high profile inmates escaped, as well as on August 29, 2016. According to the spokesperson of Nigeria Correctional Service, Umar Abubakar, the terrorists used explosives on the centre’s fence and its main entrance to gain access to the facility. About 16 inmates and three custodial officers were injured during the attack, while one personnel of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and four inmates were killed. The attack occurred barely two weeks after the Senate alerted the Nigerian Army of the existence of terrorists’ enclaves in communities within three local government areas of Kwara and Niger states, respectively. It also came on the heels of a recent killing of about 30 soldiers and other Nigerians at an illegal mining site in Shiroro area of Niger State by bandits. The Kuje Custodial Centre jailbreak is not significantly different from others before it across the country. Since the October 2020 EndSARS protests, which led to jailbreaks in Edo and Ondo states, the country has witnessed more of such incidents. For instance, gunmen attacked the custodial facility in Owerri, Imo State on April 5, 2021, and set free over 1, 800 inmates. The Imo State Police Command Headquarters adjacent to the centre was also not spared. On July 8, 2021, some inmates of the Jos correctional facility escaped, after overpowering the security men on duty. On September 13, 2021, armed men attacked the correctional facility in Kabba, Kogi State. The Abolongo Custodial Centre in Oyo State was equally attacked by gunmen on October 22, 2021.  We condemn the Kuje facility attack, especially the inability of the security operatives to repel that attack, and the failure of the intelligence system. It is unfortunate that a correctional facility located in Abuja, the seat of power, could easily be overcome by terrorists. The Kuje Custodial Centre should have been adequately protected considering the fact that many Boko Haram suspects and hardened criminals were detained there. Although President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed disappointment over the failed intelligence system that necessitated the jailbreak, there is need to interrogate the security breach at Kuje and others. The restructuring of the nation’s security architecture will go a long way to enhance security across the country. Also, the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, has blamed the attack at Kuje on the failure of security, in view of the fact that about 300 terrorists carried out the operation without adequate response from the security agents.  Beyond blaming security lapses for the Kuje attack, more measures must be put in place to contend with the increasing attacks by terrorists. The report that the security agents at Kuje Custodial Centre were overpowered by the terrorists should not be ignored. It says a lot about the security around the facility that is home to hardened criminals. The disclosure by the Senate President that the Kuje facility does not have Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras and other security gadgets is embarrassing. Let the CCTV cameras and other security gadgets be installed in Kuje and other correctional facilities. We call on the Federal Government to enhance security in all the correctional centres across the country. That is the best way to prevent the frequent security breaches at the correctional centres. Let all the security agencies share intelligence and work together to secure the country. Apart from the armed squads at the correctional centres, other security agencies should be deployed to the centres to beef up security. It will not be out of place if the Federal Government establishes military bases near some strategic correctional centres for prompt response in the event of attacks by terrorists.