From Joseph Obukata, Warri Premium Trust Bank has opened a new branch in Effurun, Uvwie Local Government Area of Delta State. The bank, which commenced full commercial banking operations in April 2022, commissioned its fifth branch in the commercial hub of Delta at the weekend. Welcoming guests at the tape-cutting event, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the bank, Mr Emmanuel Efe Emefienim, assured that the bank parades seasoned bankers with over 150 years of experience in the banking industry. “PremiumTrust Bank is a new bank licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria some months back, but it is not entirely new because its management team has a vast experience in the industry”. Mr Emefienim hinted that between April 19, 2022, when the bank first commenced operations, the Effurun branch became its fifth branch to come on stream. “Today marks a major landmark for PremiumTrust Bank as we open our 5th branch. It should also be noted that within the next two weeks, the Abuja branch will be opened – that makes it six branches in a row”. He noted that the speed at which branches are being opened underscores the fact that the people behind the bank understand the business – saying, “we are not in it to make up the numbers but to make a whole lot of difference in the industry. He said that the choice of Effurun was well-thought-out, as it is the commercial nerve centre of the state. “We will deliver the type of service that is peculiar and unique not just to PremiumTrust Bank but to the host communities”, he added.                                                                                                He said: “Firstly, we will be co-creating with our customers to provide customised solutions suited to their needs, because we understand the customers, we will not throw up products and push them into the market. We want them to be part of the solutions”. In giving a graphic detail of how the products will be developed, he said; “We will sit with them (customers), consider their needs and come up with solutions that will be tailor-made to address those needs. “This is unique, and we have started doing it already. In less than three months that we have been in business, we have become the toast of many customers. “Secondly, the response time from banks to customers is usually a big challenge. In Premium Trust Bank, we will not only deliver value, but we will always do so with a sense of urgency – this speaks to our speed at execution. When you understand the business and what the customer wants, it is easy for you to respond to their needs in record time”. “So, we deliver service to customers, but we do them with a sense of urgency and in a timely manner.