From Desmond Mgboh (Kano), Noah Ebije (Kaduna), Timothy Olanrewaju (Maiduguri), Sylvanus Viashima (Jalingo) and Olanrewaju Lawal (Birnin-Kebbi) This year’s Sallah celebration has come and gone, but in many parts of the North, the sweet memories of the religious festival will continue to live on in the minds of the celebrants. Its highlights were captured by our correspondents. Their reports: Maiduguri: Violence free celebrations It was pomp in Maiduguri, capital of Borno State. Muslims came out in large number to celebrate Eid el-Kabir. The city, which was quiet, soon after the early morning  Sallah prayers following preparations for the slaughtering of the rams, however, exploded with joyous activities  in the evening of Saturday. Scores of excited Muslims trooped out to various recreation facilities, including the amusement and zoological gardens, located near the Post Office in the city centre, not minding the usual security threats that usually come with celebrations in the state. Abdullahi Umar was one of the huge population of celebrants. He felt like he had never felt before watching the free flow of life in the state capital: “This year’s Sallah is not only exciting but totally peaceful. Nothing can be compared to fresh breath of peace.” He, however, lamented the prevailing economic hardship and the high cost of goods,  especially eatables, in the market: “Sallah celebrations have been peaceful in Maiduguri; no security threat, unlike in the past. “But the economy is really,  really bad. Many of us couldn’t even purchase rams because of the economic hardship in the country.” For the first time in four years, residents and visitors were treated to a special Sallah Durbar at the palace of Shehu of Borno, Abubakar Garbai El-Kanemi. The durbar was attended by former governor Kashim Shettima, National Assembly members, government officials and traditional rulers. The Shehu, appreciated the steady resumption of peace in the North East. Kaduna: Christians shower Muslims with love, food In Kaduna, it was a wonderful atmosphere all the way. Regardless of the fight for supremacy by politicians, the spirit of inter – faith relationship heralded Eid-el-Kabir. A church extended gifts and food items to some underprivileged Muslims. General Overseer, Christ Evangelical and Life Intervention Fellowship Ministry,  Pastor Yohanna Buru, reasoned that it was good to help the poor , especially those Muslim brothersand sisters, who could not afford food to celebrate the religious festival. He said most of the beneficiaries were street beggars, widows, orphans and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs): “The act of kindness was aimed at promoting religious tolerance, inter-religious dialogue for peace and unity as well as fostering peaceful co-existence between Muslims and Christians.” Speaker, Kaduna State House of Assembly, Yusuf Ibrahim Zailani, said: “Eid-el-Kabir is a festival of sacrifice, as exemplified by Prophet Ibrahim, who was obedient to Allah to the point of sacrificing his son Ishmael before Allah provided a ram miraculously. “Such sacrifice should be embraced by all of us, Muslims and non-Muslims, in bringing about the desired peace that will translate to economic prosperity and healthy well-being.” He charged Muslim faithful to celebrate the festival by exhibiting more love for those around them and sharing what they have with the less privileged. Jalingo: Spike in prices dampens morale, excitement The high cost of textile materials and food items, especially rams, took a shine off the Sallah celebrations in Jalingo, capital of Taraba State. The situation was not helped by the prevailing limited resources available to celebrants, who had to cut down their spending estimates for the celebrations.  The consequences included sharp drop in social engagements and less fanfares by children. Popular spots and recreation facilities were devoid of typical human traffic and cash flow. These hot spots  had fewer guests than they were used to and low business records. Jolly Nyame Stadium was a shadow of its old self.  For about a decade, Mathew Aigbe works at the pool bar of the stadium. He told Daily Sun he was surprised at the very low turnout of celebrants: “It’s bad business for the management.” Abdulrazaq Ibrahim, said most families could barely afford the basic items required for the  Sallah celebrations: “In the past, a ram of N70,000 was usually a very big one and you could also get a small ram for as low as N30,000. This time, you could barely get a small ram for N70,000. “Things are very difficult everywhere, getting the money is such a tough task. There is no money, while prices of foodstuffs are alarmingly high. So most families could barely afford a decent food for this Sallah, let alone, contemplate acquiring other luxuries or lavish resources on textiles.” Kelvin Yohana explained it this way: “People have already invested the little they had in their farms. This is planting season and so no one wants to take chances. “For most of these crops, there are specific periods you have to plant them if you want to time them well. So, people cannot afford to leave their farms out there to start celebrating Sallah. “Besides, they have invested their monies buying chemicals and other farm input and don’t even have the money to spend further, even if they had all the time. I think it is more about the season than the economy.” It was also gathered that the delayed payment of salaries was responsible for the inability of some Muslims to celebrate in their usual style. As at the time of filing this report, some workers were yet to get their salary for the month of June, 2022, while pensioners and some local government officials were owed for several months. Kano: Pardon for condemned prisoners Early in the day, thousands of Muslim worshippers observed their Sallah prayers at the Eid praying grounds.  Governor Umar Ganduje and Emir of Kano, Alhaji Ado Bayero, prayed at the Kofar Mata Eid Praying Ground. This was immediately followed by activities including slaughtering of rams and cooking. Although the traditional Hawan Nassarawa train to the Government House, lined up for the Durbar was cancelled due to the trip of the governor to Abuja, the Hawan Daushe, which took place on Sunday was an excellent piece of traditional outing. The most touching aspect of the celebrations was perhaps the prerogative of mercy granted by Ganduje to prisoners. Ten prisoners on the death row were pardoned and set free. Three other condemned prisoners were commuted to life imprisonment while 77 others were released. Those freed were given N5000 each and enjoined to sin no more. The governor promised to continue to exercise his prerogative of mercy till 2023 when he would leave office. Controller of the correctional centers in the state, Suleiman Umar, appreciated the Sallah visit by the governor and hailed his efforts towards the welfare of the prisoners. Birnin Kebbi: Bagudu, Gwandu emir, others join the train Kebbi State practically came alive during Sallah. Muslims very early in the day went to the Eid Praying Ground in Birnin Kebbi,  state capital, to observe their prayers. The city was filled with celebrants, some of whom had returned from Abuja.  The general atmosphere was calm and peaceful and Muslims, including their Christian neighbours, were excited, said 22-year-old Bello Usman,  who came back home from Lagos to celebrate Sallah. State government had disbursed money to different associations, groups and civil servants as Sallah package.The aim of this unusual gift was to assist the poor in procuring basic items such as food and rams. The Eid Praying ground was attended by dignitaries and state actors. Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu observed his prayer alongside the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Chika Malami. The governor prayed: “We join others in praying that all the prayers across the country are accepted by Allah. We are indeed thankful to Allah for His blessings to us. We pray that Allah bring peace andmercy upon us.” He thanked God for the rainy season. He assured farmers of his readiness to address the attack of Quelea birds ravaging rice farms in some parts of the state. Emir of Gwandu, Muhammadu Iliyasu Bashar, represented by Wazirin Gwandu, Abdullahi Umar, expressed gratitude to Allah for yet another peaceful Eid-el- Kabir celebrations. He urged the people to remain loyal and to respect their leaders while calling on leaders to give emphasis to developmental issues that affect the lives of the people. The emir regretted the high incidence of indiscipline among young people and urged parents to monitor and enforce discipline in their homes to reduce the socal vices ravaging the society. He equally sought the peoples’ support in the fight against insecurity in the land.