From Felix Ikem, Nsukka Residents of Enugu North Senatorial District of Enugu State yesterday came out in their thousands to register their support for the Labour Party presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi, by holding a peaceful road march. The march which started from the popular Total roundabout in Nsukka Local Government Area to Odenigbo junction through Ugwuoye junction and other major roads in Nsukka town saw the presence of both youths and the elderly to show their support for the Labour party presidential candidate in the 2023 election.  The march, which was organized by a group under the aegis of “Nsukka Youths For Good Governance,” also sensitized residents on the need for them to register for and get their Permanent Voters Card (PVC) for the 2023 general election. Speaking to newsmen, Comrade Clinton Ogbonna, the Director General of Nsukka Youths For Good Governance and the convener of the march, said that the march was in solidarity with Mr Peter Obi’s presidential aspiration and PVC registration sensitization. “We the youths, especially those from Nsukka zone brainstormed and said we are going to sensitize residents to go and get their PVC so that we can exercise our franchise during the 2023 general election. “Again we came here because we are obedient. We are youthfully obedient. Nigerian youths said that time had come for us to take back our country because we believe that this country belongs to us. “If truly that the country belongs to us, it is now time for us to take it back country. We are not going to take back the country violently, we are going to do it systematically and obediently get our PVC, to vote out bad governance,” said Ogbonna, a former Technical Assistant to Enugu State governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, adding, “Just like Mahatma Gandi of India, Nelson Mandela of South Africa, Martin Luther King Jr of USA and a whole lot of them that came out in their country and said, ‘Look we can’t continue this way.’ We need a better country for ourselves and our children. That is what we are demanding in this country.”