From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has expressed deep concerns over 334 pre-election cases pending at various divisions of Federal High Court across the country. INEC explained that the cases were filed by aspirants challenging nomination of certain candidates or their exclusion from the lists submitted to the commission. It said though the cases were intra-party issues, the commission was joined in all of them, expressing worries that the number of litigations would even increase when it publishes personal particulars of candidates for governorship, deputy governorship and state Assemblies elections today. Chairman of the commission, Mahmood Yakubu, made the disclosure at the swearing in of a new Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Abuja yesterday. “Sadly, the issue of internal democracy in political parties remains a sore point in our electoral process in Nigeria. The Commission will continue to engage with political parties while standing firm against any transgression by strictly enforcing the provisions of the law and extant regulations and guidelines.” Yakubu urged Nigerians to take advantage of the opportunity provided by the displayed certificates of the governorship, deputy governorship and State Assembly candidates at their various constituencies to scrutinise them. “As we continue to prepare for the 2023 general election in earnest, the commission will Friday, July 22, publish the personal particulars of candidates nominated by their political parties for governorship and State Assembly elections in all the constituencies nationwide as required by law. “I appeal to all Nigerians  to seize the opportunity to scrutinise the particulars of the candidates and to seek judicial remedy for any observed violation of the law as provided in Sec. 29 of the Electoral Act 2022,” he charged. He congratulated the new REC, Dr. Hale Longpet, on his nomination, confirmation and appointment, announcing that he would fill the vacancy created in Plateau State a few months ago. “In line with the Commission’s current policy, Resident Electoral Commissioners are deployed to States within their geo-political zones. However, no Resident Electoral Commissioner will serve in his/her state of origin throughout their tenure. Accordingly, Dr Longpet is hereby deployed to Kogi State as the new Resident Electoral Commissioner.”