From David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi A pharmacist in Anambra State, Chief Bath Eli, has called on the Igbo to get their Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) if they are serious about producing a Nigerian president of Igbo extraction. Chief Eli, who is the Chairman of Transglobe Pharmaceutical Limited, gave the advice in Onitsha at the 70th birthday ceremony of the Managing Director of the company, Chief Jasper Opkalafulaku. According to Chief Eli, PVCs are very important in the electoral process of the country which he said has made it necessary for everybody to ensure he has one. He said gone were the days when the Igbo would relax at their homes to make predictions of who won elections without voting. He further noted that the Igbo in Nigeria were many and could produce a president from any political party if they wished to do so. According to Chief Eli, the Igbo, with such a great population, need to work together as one. “We are not interested in the political process of the country, we don’t vote and many of us do not have PVC to vote and we still want to produce the president of the country,” he said. He called on the media to mount a serious campaign for the people to go out there and get their PVCs and be ready to vote during the election. The celebrant, Chief Opkalafulaku, commended the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Anambra State chapter for coming to celebrate with him on his 70th birthday. He commended the journalists for what he described as their good work in the State, noting that they were the mirror of society. He called on the media to defend the defenceless in the State, noting that without journalists, the country would be in darkness. “The press has done well in the country, you exhume what is hidden for the public to know. You have exposed a lot of evil deeds committed by some individuals. Without you the world is in darkness, ” he noted. Speaking on the occasion, the Chairman of the NUJ, Anambra State Council, Dr Odogwu Emeka Odogwu commended the celebrant for what he described as his immense contributions to the development of the State. According to him, the NUJ is proud of him and what he is doing to create jobs for the youths in the State. He promised to partner with his company for greater development of the State and Nigeria, generally.