By Christopher Oji The Ogun State Police Command has arrested a young man for allegedly using a girlfriend for money making rituals. The young girl after being used for rituals, started barking like a dog . Her behaviour attracted the Police who took her to the Station, but she became wild while she was also barking like a dog. The police had no action than to keep her in the cell while they continued with Investigation and contacted her parents. Preliminary police Investigation linked her behaviour to her boyfriend, who was immediately arrested. However, her behaviour attracted mammoth crowd to the police station where someone took her video while she was naked, barking like a dog and uploaded it on the social media. The police have therefore, stepped up manhunt for the person who posted the video described as despicable on the social media. According to a statement by Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi,”the attention of Ogun State Police Command, has been drawn to a viral video of a young lady who was naked and barking like dog in a police cell. “The young lady in question, was alleged to have been spiritually and diabolically used by a suspected yahoo boy, as a result of which she started barking like dog. “She was brought to the police station naked and was very difficult to control because she was acting violently, hence she was kept in the cell. Immediately she was brought to the station, her parents were contacted, and she was taken to the Hospital for medical attention with the help of the police, while the alleged Yahooboy was immediately arrested for interrogation. “The case which attracted multitude of people to the station was transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation on the order of Commissioner of Police, CP Lanre Bankole. “The Command was surprised and embarrassed to see the video of the victim circulating on the social media. The height of the embarrassment was the fact that the said video was recorded while the victim who was then naked and uncontrollable was in police cell. “In view of this, CP Lanre Bankole, has ordered a full scale investigation to unravel the source of the video and how it became a subject of social media discussion. “It is barbaric, uncivilized and despicable circulating such video on the social media as such will in no small measure denigrate the human dignity of the victim which might be another source of psychological trauma for her. “The Command, has therefore, vowed to deal with whoever found to be the source of the video and those behind its circulation on the social media in the most decisive manner notwithstanding the status of the person”.