From Gyang Bere, Jos The gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner of Benue State, Dr Nentawe Yilwatda said he will ensure transparency in the management of security in Plateau through the establishment of Security Trust Fund to secure lives and property in the state. He insisted that once security of lives and property is fixed in Plateau, the economy, infrastructural development, health and other issues bothering the people will be tackle. Dr. Yilwatda disclosed this on Monday while addressing Journalists at the NUJ press centre Jos and applauded members and stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress APC for given him the opportunity to be their governorship candidate. “Security has bee the main stay of the problem in Plateau because there is no budget that is being segmented for security since 1999. There is no money set aside in the budget for security and it is at the discretion of the Governor or the local government Chairman to determine what he want to give to the security and that has limited quick response to security issues due to poor funding. “Also, most of the issues and killings that are happening take place in the rural communities such as in Wase and Bassa Local Government Areas where there has being security problems. “The first bill I will send to the State House of Assembly when I become Governor is the Security Trust Fund bill. This will ensure that we have funds supporting security outside government. That means all capital projects of state and federal government executed in Plateau will have a component of 0.5% of the budget dedicated to the security of the state. “Also, because quite a number of security manpower in Plateau is being deploy to watch over most businesses that are in the state therefore, they will contribute 0.5% of their capital into the Trust Fund. All Banks and people doing business will also make contribution. “We are estimating that N3 billion can be generated by that Fund and it will management security of the state outside government. We will have a representative of the Police, traditional rulers, religious leaders, CSOs and the Media to ensure some level of neutrality and transparency in managing the funds for maximum security of lives and property.” Dr. Yilwatda explained further that he will revamp the state security outfit “Operation Rainbow” and deploy the services of hunters, vigilante, community leaders and equipped them with required arms within the ambit of the law to protect the state. He noted that technology would also be deployed through the use of drones and Apps to track phone calls that are dangerous to security of lives and property in the state. The former INEC REC explained further that some of the fundamental issues that fuel crisis in the rural communities are land boundaries and issues that bother on religion and stressed that he would deployed kenetic and non kenetic approach in dealing with the challenges. He emphasized that his government will explore every avenue within the legal framework to tackle security challenges if elected into office in 2023.