From Lateef Dada, Osogbo The former governor of Osun state and Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, shortly after the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), declared Senator Ademola Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the winner of the Saturday governorship election, posted a Bible verse that generated reaction on his Facebook page. From all indications, Aregbesola made good his threat that he would deal with his successor, Oyetola, for reversing his legacies on school uniforms and reversal of school merger. About 30 minutes after the announcement of the results, round 8:30 am on Sunday, Aregbesola took to his Facebook page and posted:Osun Le Tente “This matter is by the decree of the watchers, and the demand by the word of the holy ones: to the intent that the living may know that the highest ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomever He will, and setteth up over it the basest of men.” (Daniel 4:17). One Jimoh Tajudeen Olawale, who teaches to the Facebook post, said: “It is now for you to declare and decamp openly sir. So that people would now know where you belong sir.” Also, one Temidayo Michael Adeleye wrote: “Congratulations Sir, it’s time to resign and leaves their Yeye minister position for them.., because is overuse now that you are no longer a member of APC. One Oyetunji said, “He taught them a brutal lesson in politics nobody is indispensable.” Another person, Ojoye Samson Oluwagbemiga wrote: “A house divided against itself can never stand. you have played your role in pulling down your own house, that is all you can achieve. Congratulations you won.” Funmilayo Aiyeola wrote: “You are right. Osun state election I hope and pray Adeleke believes in education as you do. Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola I love you very much, you are a kind, honest and peaceful person. Oluwanifemi Eyibobola: “You’ve done your part, I was a firm believer in your idea thinking you could put aside bitterness and work for the party, anyway lesson well learnt.” Aregbesola had boycotted the election on Saturday and his younger brother who also works as his aide was seen at Ilesa, allegedly working for the PDP. Some of the splinter group of the APC, The Osun Progressives (TOP), had been mocking Oyetola on social media. One man simply identified as Isiaq said, “we need to show Oyetola that he’s nothing without TOP.” Another person posted “see, am Apc but Oyetola has gone.” This further confirmed the rumour that Aregbesola’s allies worked for the opposition party in the election.