From Charity Nwakaudu, Abuja The National Rescue Movement (NRM) has debunked news by the party’s former presidential candidate Nwa-Anyajike, claiming that the party’s national chairman, Isaac Udeh, and its organising secretary, Mohammed Dirisu Isah, have been suspended. The party, in a statement released to reporters in Abuja by its National Publicity Secretary-General, Olusola Afuye, has advised the former chairman and former presidential candidate not to resort to cheap blackmail or media warfare. “It is clear that the illegal suspension report is the handiwork of vicious anti-people forces who are agitated by the stability, unity and soaring popularity of the party under the cohesive Amb Isaac Udeh-led National Working Committee,” the statement reads. “It’s also important to make good use of this medium to set the record straight on the allegations of forgery, extortion among others against the two officers of the party by former presidential candidate Mazi Nwa-Anyajike.” The party stated that Nwa-Anyajike cannot be trusted, saying his contradicting and inconsistent statements call for concern. “In trying to display his falsehood tendencies, at a point he claimed before the Nigeria Police that he paid N14 Million for Nomination and Expression of interest forms while the report in the news stated he paid the sum of N20 million into the party’s account. He paid only the sum of N5 million as against the N19 million approved by the party. “It’s obvious that our party can not in any way condole this human being with an unstable mind.Mazi Nwa-Anyajike has displayed characteristics of a Political jobber over time. “However, the party will act in accordance with our constitutional provisions to deploy our internal mechanism to resolve the issues and move the party forward,” the statement read. “The NWC urged all members of our great Party, teeming supporters, the media and the general public to disregard the said report as malicious and lacking in substance. “The leadership of NRM hereby call on every member to remain resolute and keep praying for successful 2023 general elections. A fraction of the party, led by the chairman of the party’s Board of Trustees, Senator Saidu Dansauda, had earlier stated that the National Executive Committee suspended the national chairman of the party, Isaac Ude, and the national organising secretary, Mr Mohammed Idrissu, for allegedly forging the signature of the party’s presidential candidate, Mazi Okwudili Nwa-Anyajike. The BoT chairman emphasised that national officials were suspended for forging the signature of the former presidential candidate, Okwudili Nwa-Anyajike, adding that the action was a gross violation of the mission of the party to rescue Nigeria. Senator Dansauda urged the police to expeditiously investigate, arrest and arraign Ambassador Ude and Mr Idrissu for undermining the integrity of the NRM.