From Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa   The wife of the Governor of Bayelsa State, Dr Gloria Diri has urged golf stakeholders across the country to take advantage of the Henry Seriake Dickson Golf and Country Club in Yenagoa to stage major golf tournaments at the facility.   Dr Diri stated this shortly after teeing off a Charity Golf Tournament held as part of activities for the investiture of the new Governor of Rotary District 9141, Chief Mightyman Aye-Dikuro.   According to her, the facilities and equipment at the Golf Course in Yenagoa were top notch compared to other top courses in the country.   She used the occasion to assure the new Governor Rotary District 9141 and his team of the support of Governor Douye Diri in the quest to serve humanity.   In her remarks, President of the Ladies Golf Association of Nigeria, Mrs. Juliet Monyei-Inyere said the golf tournament which is geared towards charity would affect lives positively.   She stated that golf was getting popular in the country as more people take to the game just as more Nigerian lady golfers step up to take part in continental and global competitions including the All Challenge Trophy scheduled for Tanzania in September this year.   Former Vice President of Rotary International, Mr. Yinka Babalola who served in 2019/2020 said the essence of the tournament is to raise funds to execute projects that touch the lives of people.   The new Governor, Rotary District 9141, Chief Mightyman Aye-Dikuro said as the foremost charity organization in the world, the leadership of the district intended to give back to society using golf.   Some guest players including the Chairperson, Board of Trustees, United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund for Victims of Trafficking in Persons and former Director General of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons, Dame Julie Okah-Donli and a past President, Ladies Golf Association of Nigeria and new Assistant Governor of Rotary District 9141, Usifo Ngozi Veronica said they were excited to take part in the tournament which is aimed at raising funds to combat polio.   Over a hundred golfers participated in the Charity Golf Tournament playing 9 holes at the Henry Seriake Dickson Golf and Country Club in Yenagoa.