Amstel Malta Ultra, the official malt drink of the Super Falcons has congratulated the Nigeria Women’s team following their qualification for next year’s World Cup in Australia and New Zealand. The Super Falcons who are also through to the semi-final stage of the ongoing Women’s Africa Cup of Nations in Morocco after they secured a lone goal win through Rashidat Ajibade over Cameroon’s Indomitable Lionesses have been described as true heroines. Fully nourished with the Amstel Malta Ultra vitality, the Super Falcons confirmed their superiority over the Lionesses in Thursday’s quarter-final contest in Casablanca. While that crucial victory ensured that the Super Falcons remain one of only six countries on the planet that have never missed an edition of the Women’s World Cup, it also keeps them on track for a record-extending 10th African title. The Brand Manager, Amstel Malta Ultra, Maire Abia-Bassey while praising the Super Falcons for achieving their first target of qualification for the World Cup enjoined the team to stay focused on their other goal of bringing the African trophy back home again. She said: “The Super Falcons have shown us all that with hard work and dedication, we can achieve a lot. Amstel Malta Ultra is very proud of the girls and would keep supporting them to stay on the very top”. It is even more thrilling to note that all Nigeria’s three women’s football teams are World Cup bound. The Under 20 team, Falconets will be battling for the 10th time at U-20 World Cup which the 2022 edition will be holding in Costa Rica next month. The U-17 team, Flamingoes have also qualified for their category of the World Cup to be held in India in October this year. “The ladies’ achievements make us proud as backers of the teams and we are encouraged to continue to support them,” Abia-Bassey added. The Amstel Malta brand manager also congratulated Randy Waldrum and all the officials for doing their bit in ensuring that the Nigerian flag is soaring high in Morocco. After overcoming the Indomitable Lionesses, the Super Falcons will be returning to the den to face the Atlas Lionesses for a ticket to the 2022 WAFCON final.