The Africa Film Academy, organiser of the Africa Movie Academy Awards (AMAA), has announced the appointment of Keith Shiri as the president of AMAA 2022 Jury. Keith Shiri, an international film curator and programme advisor to several international film festivals, will lead other respected curators and renowned filmmakers that make up the AMAA Jury. According to Peace Anyiam-Osigwe, founder of AMAA, the Academy is excited to welcome Keith Shiri, a founding juror at AMAA and promoter of African art and film as president of this year’s AMAA Jury, She said: “Keith’s experience and vast knowledge of African films, which spanned over two decades coupled with his expertise, which has seen him serve in different international organisations, made him a great fit for this position. We look forward to continuing our strong ties with the board of jurors at the academy under his leadership.” Keith will preside over the jury after Steve Ayorinde, a renowned film and art critic served as the president of AMAA 2021 Jury. Keith is presently curating the Icons of the Africa Centre Series for the legendary London-based cultural institution. He is also a consultant on film business development for International Trade Centre (ITC), an agency of the United Nations that is currently implementing an initiative to promote film exports from the Caribbean to the UK and European markets. Keith was a member of the Berlinale World Cinema Fund from 2004-2007 and a trainer for Esodoc/EU (European Social Documentary), a programme for documentary filmmakers. He has served as an expert advisor for the EU-ACP programme for the ACP cinema and on the advisory board of New York’s Focus Features Africa First Programme, which supported young African filmmakers through its mentorship programme. Since its establishment in 2005, AMAA has been consistent. Every year, the Africa Film Academy (AFA) team works all year round to create a thriving and promising environment for creatives and filmmakers across Africa by recognising filmmakers’ excellent works and nurturing many moviemakers across the continent.