From Gyang Bere, Jos The gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr Nentawe Yilwatda, has assured his supporters that he will not betray the trust reposed him if given the mandate to govern Plateau in 2023. He appreciated critical stakeholders of the party for entrusted in him the mandate to fly the ticket of the party ahead of 2023 elections. Dr Yilwatda disclosed this on Thursday during a visit to his home town in Kanke Local Government Area of Plateau State, where he was given a rousing welcome by his people. He insisted that Plateau people, particularly the youths will not regret voting him as he has resolved to work towards securing the state. “We are here to appreciate all members of the APC for entrusting the mandate of the party in me and we will not take the trust for granted. We will ensure that we pay back in positive ways.” He described the choice of his running mate as a sign of hope for Plateau youths who constitutes the largest voting population but do not control the economy of the state in anyway. The Former INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner said Pam Bot-Mang who has international affiliation was carefully selected to mentor the youths and attract local and international investors to revamp the economy of the state. Dr Yilwatda noted that 10 percent of the total internally generated revenue of the state would be dedicated for youths and women empowerment in the state. He appealed to Plateau people to vote massively for him and the APC candidates for the Senate, House of Representatives, House of Assembly to enable them work collectively as a team for the benefit of the state. Deputy Speaker of the State House of Assembly Hon Saleh Yipmong praised the APC leadership under Governor Lalong and called for support for Yilwatda to continue in 2023. He assured the candidate the support of the APC Cacus in the State House Assembly for the success of his electioneering campaign in 2023. Stakeholders of the party from Plateau North, Plateau South and Plateau Central, Sen Timothy Adudu, Hon Innocent Tilsel and Hon Sadad Garga all expressed confidence that APC will emerged victorious in 2023.