By Damilola Fatunmise For Funmilola Oluwajuwonlo Oduronbi, being a fashion designer is more than just designing and dressmaking, it’s a lifetime passion to make things happen. Going by her amazing works, one might be wondering if Oduronbi had education in fashion design. But rather, she had her first degree in Mass Communication from Babcock University and her second degree in Strategic Marketing Communications from University of Greenwich, UK.  Oduronbi’s fashion brand, Atoke Atelier, was borne out of passion and quest to get well-tailored, high quality outfits. “I have always admired international brands like Louis Vuitton, Dorothy Perkins, Prada, Chanel amongst others, and I am like ‘why can’t we sew like this?’ So, I decided to learn the art of dressmaking from a reputable fashion school, Artmonde Design School, formerly known as Airvy Training Centre. After finishing my course in 2017, I started my own brand the following year with the help of friends and family members,” she explained.  Since then, Funmi Oduronbi has not looked back. In this rare interview, she opened up on her journey so far. Enjoy it. Tell us briefly about yourself. My name is Funmilola Oluwajuwonlo Oduronbi. I am from Abeokuta, Ogun State. I am a certified fashion designer, tutor and lead designer at Atoke Atelier, a fashion brand. I enjoy my company and love the company of my friends also. Having studied Mass Communication, why did you choose to be a fashion designer and not a journalist or broadcaster or even PR specialist? I have always been passionate about advertisements and this spurred me into studying Mass Communication. Back in secondary school, I used to master TV commercials and dramatise same to my classmates. At the same time, I was that girl that did well with everything I laid my hands on. I was and am still good at every craft, and I take pride in the fact that there is nothing I can’t do. So, transitioning into a full time fashion designer came easy. My journey as a fashion designer started by chance, which has now grown into a passion. Fashion gives me room to express my creativity, knowing I am solving a need for people. The funniest thing is that my educational background has really helped me. I have been able to apply knowledge acquired to my craft as a designer, and also in managing the business. Tell us about your fashion brand, Atoke Atelier? Atoke Atelier is a womenswear brand, and it caters to the fashionable and sophisticated woman who loves to look good. We make bridals, bespoke and ready-to-wear clothes. We also train fashion enthusiasts who want to learn the art of dressmaking. Our ready-to-wear brands are created to promote the rich cultural heritage of Africa through clothing. It’s safe to say it is ‘Afrocentric line’.  What’s unique about your fashion brand? The uniqueness of our brand is the experience and feeling that comes with being an Atoke woman. This is fully packed with our attention to details, finishing and peculiarity (every woman/client is distinct). We believe that fashion is not just something to be worn; it should also be a lifestyle. Hence, our garments and accessories are designed to bring out the full beauty in our clients, and provide them with the confidence to express themselves through their looks. Why do you cater to only female clients? Firstly, for the obvious reason of being a woman, but we intend adding menswear soon. What gives you inspiration to design the apparels you sew? Different things inspire me. These include fabric, body shape, colours and occasions. Nature also inspires me. What is fashion to you? Fashion is a lifestyle. It is a form of expression. You can be who you want to be with your style. What’s your favourite wear and why? I can’t say I have a particular favourite wear. As long as I am comfortable in an outfit, I rock it. What would you not be caught wearing? Anything tattered. How do you handle a difficult client? The best way for me is to satisfy such client and be extremely patient with the person. I make sure I listen and note all they want including the complaints. After working with such customer, and issues persist, I might decline the next order. Tell us your most memorable experience as a fashion designer. The most memorable moment is whenever a client comes in for fitting. Their expression is priceless for me. It is always a memorable and fun time. Could you tell us your lowest moment too? My lowest moment would be the pandemic that came with changes beyond our power. Who are your mentors or role models in the fashion industry both locally and internationally? My role models are Deola Sagoe, Ohimai Atafo, Evioghene, Adetoke Olowo, Fisayo Longe, and Coco Chanel amongst others. What challenges do you face as a fashion entrepreneur in Nigeria? The major challenge is manpower and getting skilled workers. Another challenge is incessant power outage. How would you describe the journey so far and what are the future plans for your brand? The journey so far has been good. It’s a mixture of the good, the bad, and the ugly. But in all, Atoke has been thriving. I have been able to style different calibers of people. Also, I have been able to use my skills as a fashion designer and pattern maker to impart knowledge to others through various platforms like Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and physical workshops, and I have had the pleasure to train over 40 people who are passionate about fashion and who love creativity and want to explore their creative side. My future plan is to live my vision, which is to be a global brand.