Caribbean–born UK-based singer, Regine Garnier, is set to unveil her latest song, Without You, on Saturday, July 9 in Lagos. According to the musician, who is in Nigeria for the first time, Without You features Nigerian Afropop star, Skales and the arrangement was facilitated by her producer, Ifex and DJ Bright Star. “I would be having my music listening party here in Lagos on July 9, 2022. I collaborated with Nigerian Afrobeats musician, Skales in the single. So, my expectations are high. I want to see how Nigerians do their thing at the party,” she said. Born in Guadalupe, an Island in South America, Regine has come a long way. She’s the last of 11 children and became orphaned at 10. Aside this, she was a survivor of a ghastly auto crash that claimed the lives of her mother and a family friend. A child prodigy, Regine started singing early in life, and went professional in 2012. She later moved to the United Kingdom to start life afresh, and to take her singing to the next level. On what inspired her single, Without You, the musician pointed to love as the bedrock of most of her songs. “From childhood, music has been my love language, because it has always helped me pull through life challenges,” she admitted, adding, “Money can be bought but love cannot be bought. With love, you can do so many things. When love is there, it’s there and you cannot fake it; it’s all there and should be shown to people who need it.” On her collaboration with Skales, Regine Garnier, who was in a music band called ‘Soul Sisters’ back in France where she lived with her elder sister, said: “I chose Skales because he’s a big name in the Nigerian music industry. I used to like his song, Shake Body and could dance to it non-stop. I have always loved Afrobeats and I have been doing it for quite a while, and it’s a lot better coming over to Nigeria to do it.” For music lovers, Regine’s Without You can be accessed on all digital streaming platforms including Amazon, Boomplay, Spotify and YouTube among others.