From Rose Ejembi, Makurdi The Archbishop of Abuja, Most Rev. Ignatius Ayau Kaigama on Thursday, condemned the continued persecution and killing of innocent Christians particularly Catholic Priests in the country by terrorists describing the attacks as unfortunate. The Catholic Bishop also lamented the lack of motorable roads in Benue state even as he called on both the federal and state governments to rise up to the challenge. Archbishop Kaigama who stayed this at the installation of Most Rev. Isaac Bundepuun Dugu as the Bishop of Katsina-Ala Diocese regretted the deplorable state of most roads in the state just as he urged the governor to take proactive measures to ensure that the roads are constructed without further delay. Archbishop Kaigama also advised Ortom to take those road projects that are beyond him to handle to the federal government for necessary action. “The condition of roads in the state are is very bad even the road to this place (venue of the event) is also bad, as I was coming here I observed how bad the road is. “I urge Governor Samuel Ortom to construct these roads to make them motorable, the ones he cannot do, he should take them to the federal government to come and do them and even link them to my state in Taraba state so that when I retire I will drive on them home”. He also called for sustained prayers to end killing and abduction of Catholic priests, stressing that the growing insecurity situation ravaging all states of the country must be stopped. The Catholic priest also encouraged all Catholic faithfuls in the Diocese to work in harmony with Bishop Dugu for peace and development of the church, warning against divisive tendencies that could bring about crisis in the church. On his part, Governor Samuel Ortom acknowledged the deplorable condition of roads especially the Gboko-Katsina road and promised to take the matter to the presidency for necessary action. He lauded the cordial working relationship between his administration and the church and restated his continued support and partnership with the church for the development of the state. Also speaking, Paramount ruler of the Tiv nation, HRM Prof. James Ayatse, thanked Governor Ortom for ensuring the return of peace in Sankera axis which he noted, had before now, become a no-go area due to criminal activities. The monarch enjoined members of the church to give maximum support to the new Bishop to enable him effectively discharged his duties.