The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), has deployed 11,226 personnel for the Saturday’s election. The personnel approved by the Commandant General of the corps,  Dr Ahmed Audi, would cover 3,763 polling units, collation centres, flash points as well as Critical National Assets and Infrastructure in all the 30 Local Governments and Ife area offices. A statement made available to our correspondent in Osogbo on Thursday by the Director, Public Relations, NSCDC National Headquarters, Abuja, DCC Olusola Odumosu, disclosed that the personnel were drawn from the national headquarters and nine State Commands including Osun, Ondo, Ekiti, Oyo, Ogun, Lagos, Kwara, Kogi and Edo to supply manpower for the election. According to Audi, the objectives of the corps in the election is to create a secured environment for successful conduct and enhance the general security in the state before, during and after the election. He explained that the personnel had attended various workshops on best practices during elections. “They have also been acquainted with the provisions of the Electoral Act as regards to Rules of Engagement, hence, must comply with the Corps’ Operational Code, Standard Operating Procedure and above all, display of professionalism and high sense of discipline throughout the election. “This robust operational order has been activated to ensure a hitch-free exercise and guide against molestation and intimidation of the electorate by hoodlums or party thugs.” He also assigned Deputy Commandant General (DCG) in charge of Operations, Dauda Mungadi to oversee the election exercise, just as he designated Assistant Commandant General (ACG) Operations, Philip Ayuba, Zonal Commander (Zone J), Fasiu Adeyinka and Commandant, Special Duties, Oliver Ugwuja to serve as field Commanders monitoring each senatorial district of the state. Audi also ordered the deployment of an Ant-vandalism Squad, Critical National Asset protection unit and other special forces to all key points in the state to protect them against vandalism, damage or arson. He stressed that a pool of officers shall be drawn from Special Forces, such as Arms Squad Unit, Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU), Chemical Biological Radiological Nuclear and Explosives Unit (CBRNE), the Special Female Squad, Rapid Response Squad, K9 and SWAT Unit, different from the regular conventional personnel, to have a successful execution of the assignment. He reiterated the corps’ readiness to partner with sister agencies to ensure a hitch-free poll and to guarantee a crime-free environment to enable eligible voters to exercise their voting rights. He warned all personnel deployed to remain apolitical, stressing that whoever is found perpetrating unethical conduct will certainly face sanctions.