In Divine Providence, Francis Cardinal Arinze once emphasized with ecclesiastical authority nothing happens by chance. The cardinal’s conviction, which reinforces the doctrine of determinism is, of course, very much in tune with his province. For non-subscribers to the doctrine of determinism, however, life is not always pre-ordained. What comes out of life is what man makes of it. The truth, as is often the case, may be found in between. As resourceful and strategic as man can be, there is clearly a limit to what he can do for himself. Nor is it known yet that humans have acquired the capability to align the elements in their own favour. The reality, therefore, as even non-subscribers to determinism must concede, is that at some point in the life of various individuals or in the promotion of an idea or a course, the stars do coalesce to emit such favourable aura that make possible that which hitherto appeared impossible. At such instances, determinism makes a strong case for itself and the idea of divine providence appears too real to be discountenanced. Such critical junctures in the fate of ideas, products or men crystalize in what the American bestselling author and journalist Malcolm Gladwell termed ‘the tipping point’. Gladwell could not quite account for what triggers off the tipping points, though. This is the point where, beyond human efforts, the gods apparently intervene with an ethereal nod. For those who make more from such inspired classical narratives as Homer offered, the life of men of substance at eventful junctures can better be understood when situated in the context of the   games the gods play above with the fate of humans beneath. Believe what you will, divine providence does seem too real at times to be dismissed. Look at Governor Peter Obi, Labour Party’s presidential candidate on whom is now coalesced a national yearning for good governance by millions of youths and a not a few older citizens. Of course, nothing is settled yet about the 2023 elections. Obi is still far from wining the tortured prize. However, the thought of how a slight twist of fate would have so drastically altered the dynamic of what has evolved within a short time into an unprecedented national movement built around his presidential candidate, based not on money, but on huge belief in his personality, makes it imperative to give divine providence some more attention. Electoral campaigns and the jostling for power are worse than the weather. Fortunes change overnight in the business and ratings swing. Even at that, the current surge of the Labour Party in political reckoning, with Obi as its presidential candidate, is too remarkable to ignore. Late last week, the LP presidential candidate unveiled his running mate in the person of Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed. The choice elicited excitement from many Nigerians, who approved of the freshness of the vice-presidential candidate, more so with his coming along with no known baggage. In his passion for education which has blossomed into huge investment in the sector, Datti Baba-Ahmed has a shared value and bond with Peter Obi, which can only be to the benefit of Nigeria. Quite a number of other shared experiences and commitment to build a society driven by productivity and excellence present the LP ticket in a very inspiring light, as they hold out hope for Nigerians. Yusuf Baba-Ahmed comes across by all reckoning at the moment as an excellent compatible choice of a running mate for Peter Obi. But it could so easily not have been, but for divine providence. Barely few weeks back, the Labour Party was exploring a merger with New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), led by the mercurial Kano-anchored politician, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso. The discussion did not yield fruit. The media blitz launched by Governor Kwankwaso and his team against Obi recently, even after the explorative merger discussions between their parties had ended, remains curious. Obi is remarkably self-effacing, even if he is resolute in his principles. In him, the youths of the country have hung their determination and hope, propelling his presidential bid into a national movement. Governor Kwankwaso on the other hand, is a political prima donna, a typical my command type of politician. He is the antithesis of the Peter Obi personality. His public declaration that he cannot be anybody’s deputy and that he is the commander of northern votes, mark him out as a most unlikely candidate for any stable partnership with the Labour Party candidate. Indeed, a partnership with Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso would have been a big pain, up or down. Nobody denies that he is a popular politician. With Obi carrying the aspiration of the youths and Kwankwaso not ready to be anybody’s deputy by his own declaration, the two sides were destined to go their separate ways. And they did. Why Kwankwaso and his side still go about carrying on like a jilted lover beggars understanding. Beyond the Kwankwaso affair, by far the greater troubling prospect which divine providence rescued Peter Obi from was the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Barely two months back, Obi was in the PDP, striving among a score other presidential aspirants. Everything Peter Obi is saying today that resonates with the youths and the nation, he was saying while he was in PDP. Did anybody listen to him? But for divine providence, Obi and the promise he holds out today would have been totally submerged in PDP. It would have been such a waste, the proverbial candle lighted and left under the bushel. Can you imagine a candidate, any candidate, standing on the platform of PDP and asking Nigerians to trust him with their purse, that he will be a paragon of prudence? From the platform of PDP? That seems a most incongruent message from that station. Yet Peter Obi would have continued swimming against such tide, but for divine providence. Tomorrow springs from the bowel of eternity. What becomes of the promise that Peter Obi holds out to Nigeria at this critical juncture is left to be seen. If the same providence that has steered him away from some of the troublesome entanglements that could so easily have bugged down his presidential bid propels him and his running mate to the top, there is reason to believe that it will be to the benefit of Nigeria. If it turns out otherwise, the struggle continues for the hapless citizens. For now, the future is in the hand of fate.