By Chinelo Obogo Veteran aviation professional, Dr. Gabriel Olowo,  turned 70 recently and celebrated with the launch of an aviation book titled: ‘Cutting Costs Without Cutting Corners.’ The platinum jubilee, which was held in Lagos was attended by stakeholders in the aviation industry, Osun State Government, business world and His Imperial Majesty Ooni of Ife Oba Adéyeyè Enitan Ògúnwùsì , Òjájá II, who played a very key role in the entire programme. While the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) Capt. Musa Nuhu, and his counterpart, Akin Olateru, the Commissioner, Accident Investigation Bureau – Nigeria (AIB-N), led the aviation players, the Governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola, who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Mr. Benedict Olugboyega Alabi, led other government functionaries from Osun and beyond to the occasion. Colleagues, friends, family members and associates from the Aviation Round Table (ART), poured encomiums on Olowo for his display of professionalism and contributions to the growth of the aviation industry, not just in Nigeria, but on the continent of Africa. Nuhu who was the chief launcher, said Olowo is a thoroughbred professional who has played a massive role in the sustenance of safety in Nigeria with his unbiased critique of activities in the sector. He said: “We are here to celebrate our brother and the launching of his book: ‘Cutting Costs without Cutting Corners’ and with the experience and the contribution of Chief Olowo to the industry over the years, over the decades are well-known and legendary. “I do appreciate him for putting everything in the book, which will be a reference for everybody in the industry; the public and the private sectors, the regulator and the regulated. This is a very important thing.” The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adéyeyè Enitan Ògúnwùsì, Òjájá II challenged Olowo’s children to take a cue from their father by being good citizens of the country. Also, Mrs. Stella Olowo, the wife of the celebrant thanked God for keeping the entire family alive till date despite challenges, especially during the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, which affected the entire globe. The celebrant’s children also poured encomiums on him and thanked God for sparing his life till date in good health. Olowo in his speech, thanked God for making him witness the 70th birthday despite all the challenges of the past years.