Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) has urged Muslims to intensify prayers against insecurity in the country. The call is contained in a statement issued by the JNI Secretary General, Khalid Aliyu, in Kaduna, following the commencement of the Muslim holy month of Dhul-Hijjah. Dhul-Hijjah is the 12th and final month in the Islamic calendar. It is a sacred month in the Islamic calendar, in which the hajj takes place, as well as the festival of the sacrifice. Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar, Sultan of Sokoto and president of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) had declared yesterday as the first day of Dhul-Hijjah, and stressed the importance of the first 10 days of the month. The Sultan urged Muslims to intensify prayers and other good deeds during the days.   Hee also stressed the need for fervent prayers during the days, saying the heinous crimes of abductions, killings and attacks were “condemnable, abhorrent and un-Islamic. “We must not relent in offering our support to security agencies by providing relevant intelligence tips,” he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Khalid said Muslims should use the first 10 days of the month of Dhul-Hijjah to increase supplications, invocations and meritorious acts of devotion to seek Allah’s favours and blessings for the country. “JNI, under the leadership of Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, the Sultan of Sokoto and president general of NSCIA, urges Muslims to utilise the first 10 days of Dhul Hijjah in virtuous acts, which commenced yesterday. “It is in these sacred days that the annual ‘Eid-el-Adha is celebrated, along with the accompanying momentous sacrifices and the spiritual attainment of hajj. “Therefore, it is recommended for non-pilgrims who could, to fast on Arafat day, which comes up on Friday, July 8; its reward is a reparation of two years’ sins. “We should also use this opportunity to seek Allah’s forgiveness, adore and worship Him the more, as well as supplicate fervently for an end to the security cum socio-economic challenges bedevilling the nation,” he said. On the 2023 general election, the JNI said Nigerians must work to counter the apprehensions and uncertainties associated with the periods.