From Noah Ebije, Kaduna The New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) governorship candidate in Kaduna State, Senator Suleiman Othman Hunkuyi has expressed confident that the party will win governorship election in the state. He also added that the party will emerge victorious in the presidential election and other elective positions in the 2023 general elections. Senator Hunkuyi made the remark after the unveiling of the NNPP Kaduna State Secretariat by Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwanso, the party’s presidential candidate for the next year February Presidential Election. Kwankwaso who is in a two-day visit to Kaduna State, unveiled the NNPP Kaduna office. He also commissioned the zonal and local government offices in the state. Hunkuyi said “There is that general acceptability of NNPP by the people. We are tired of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP for obvious reasons. People feel betrayed by the ruling party, All Progressive Congress, APC. “NNPP is the only option. People must find a credible alternative platform and that is the NNPP. This is part of the reasons NNPP was brought on board. We have said it before, we are repeating again and the people have accepted, and they are turning out in mas to prove that they see a credible alternative platform in the NNPP.” “Today is another day that the party recorded another success in the step towards the victory in 2023 general election. The party has decided to pull some of its assets together. Talking of the assets, we are talking of the Presidential Candidate, Senator (Engr.) Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso. We’re talking of Governorship Candidate, National Assembly and State House of Assembly Candidates and we are talking of other well-meaning members of the party. These are assets for the NNPP. “Secondly, another asset of the party is the offices or places of abode of the party officials which are being commissioned,” Hunkuyi said. Similarly, the NNPP presidential candidate, Senator Kwankwaso who was a guest at Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria and NTA Network in Kaduna pointed out that NNPP under him is determined to turn around things for good for the country. He called on Nigerians to support the party in order to take the nation away from the myriads of problems facing its cooperate existence.