A Nigerian real estate firm, Eystone Development, has launched the second and third phases of its fast-selling Gemstone Estate at Eleko, Ibeju-Lekki, even as it targets the rapid expansion of development in the Ibeju-Lekki axis of Lagos, an area fondly tagged, ‘The New Lagos’. The launch of the estates, which last weekend, attracted over 500 realtors, business partners, investors and prospective landowners from across Lagos. With a land area of over 455 km2 and an estimated population of 117,481(200 census), Ibeju-Lekki is one of the largest Local Government Areas (LGAs) in Lagos and yet, one of the most sparsely population. However, with renewed focus on the area, it is expected to become a future central hub for business, manufacturing, warehousing, and logistics. Some of the major proposed and ongoing projects in the area include the Lekki Free Trade Zone, Dangote Refinery, Lekki Deep Sea Port, Lekki International Airport, and Eleganza Industries.  As more people move into Ibeju-Lekki to live or do business, real estate companies like Eystone Development are helping to fast track development by facilitating a smooth and seamless land ownership process, offering flexible payment structures. Hassan Ismail, Chief Executive Officer and co-founder of Eystone Development said: “We want to be part of the development story of Ibeju-Lekki by helping people find their feet here. “Gemstone 2 and 3 estates are sequel to our sold-out Gemstone estate brand, which continues to attract numerous property investors to the Ibeju-Lekki axis due to our seamless acquisition process and flexible payment structure.” Recently awarded Africa’s most innovative & outstanding real estate investment brand in 2022 at the African innovative real estate brand awards, Eystone launched Gemstone 1 estate in August 2021. According to Eystone’s Chief Operating Officer (COO), Sadiq Abiodun Kosoko, it is all about innovating and adapting to meet people’s needs. “Eystone Development continues to evolve even as the property acquisition ecosystem changes in Lagos. We have therefore, been consistent in delivering value to our customers, ensuring fast and seamless acquisition,” Kosoko said.