By Chukwudi Nweje Ahead of the 2023 general election, eminent religious and civic leaders from across Nigeria have joined their voices to condemn the growing issues of injustice and inequitable representation in government. The religious leaders, including Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar, President, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Samson Ayokunle, and President and founder, Vision Africa, Sunday Onuoha, made their views known in a joint statement entitled: ‘Declaration for a Peaceful and Secure Nigeria’, issued after an International Religious Freedom Summit in Washington, D.C., at the weekend. Specifically, they identified the 1999 Constitution, poor political representation, concerns on judicial integrity and fairness, issues of governmental bias, corruption, and inaction; a grievous lack of security, as some of the factors that trigger criss in the country. “The 1999 Constitution must be re-examined and all communities must have a fair hand in the political and social development of Nigeria; Some of the major causes of  crises include concerns of political representation and the possibility of a genuinely democratic governance; questions of judicial integrity and fairness; issues of governmental bias, corruption, and inaction; a grievous lack of security due to terrorism, militancy, cycles of retaliation, kidnappings for ransom, sexual violence, and significant organised criminal activity; mass hunger and starvation; poor agricultural policies and a lack of education for sustainable livestock-raising; mass displacement of peoples and poor security for them; and a hostile business environment and lack of jobs and education.” The leaders condemned the spate of religious and ethnic violence in the country, even as they accused some political and religious leaders of involvement in them. They further said: “We are gravely concerned that political and government representatives, and, sometimes, religious representatives as well, have not taken seriously their full duty to promote peace and harmony among the people of Nigeria, which has contributed to numerous crises for our nation. “Religious leaders play a special role in leading their communities, and have a duty to shepherd their communities in a way that promotes peace.” They condemned the use of violence to spread or hinder political or religious views, or to demean ethnic, regional, or tribal affiliations, and noted that the only way Nigeria can make progress is when people’s fundamental rights are respected, and called for tolerance among the country’s various ethnic or religious persuasions. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “All people are endowed by the Creator with inherent value and fundamental rights, regardless of nationality, ethnicity, culture, religion or the many other differences that often divide us. Therefore, the essential freedom and dignity of every person must be respected and protected. “We recognise and respect the various traditions and faith communities present in Nigeria, and will promote their collaboration to advance the well-being of all and to resolve conflicts peacefully,” they said. The body pledged commitment to respect and protect the rights of women and the girl-child, and noted that the dialogue and peace efforts would continue and be made more inclusive. “We recognise the importance of women, girls, and youths in all of our communities, as playing a vital role in the promotion of peace, and welcome their active participation in building a brighter future for Nigeria. “We will engage in constructive, respectful dialogue, always seeking pathways to cooperative action that promote the common good for the people and country of Nigeria. “This necessary and ongoing dialogue must be inclusive and open to an expanding number of stakeholders to ensure all voices are heard and governance will be based on mutual consensus and respect, as well as protection of individual freedoms and rights,” they said.