From Sola Ojo, Kaduna Member who represented Badarawa/Malali federal constituency in the House of Representatives (2011-2015) and Chieftain of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Kaduna State, Shehu Bawa popularly known as ABG has dumped the party. ABG in a letter dated June 30 addressed to the Chairman of his Badarawa/Malali Ward, ABG said he was leaving PDP said he had to leave because the party has failed to reward his loyalty. “This is to convey my withdrawal from membership of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) with effect from the date of this notice. “I seize this opportunity to express my appreciation to Executives, Stakeholders and members of the party for their support during my stint at the party. “Loyalty is not rewarded. After all the labour for the party when everyone left, I was given a task which I accomplished to reposition the party, I headed the committee and a recommendation was provided, that is what the party is using today”, he said. He then promised to provide more details on his next move after dumping the opposition party. Reacting to the development, a stakeholder of PDP in Badarawa/Malali ward, Musa Haruna justified ABG’s action of severing ties with the party, saying the politician had done so much for the growth and development of the party and deserved a high level of recognition and respect in the party than what he has. “This was a loyal party man who expended his time, energy and resources to ensure our party remains strong and formidable both at the state and federal levels. “The results and recommendations of the repositioning assignment he was given were the panacea being used by the party as it prepares for the 2023 general election. “He spent months going round and putting one and two together as he carried out the tedious assignment of finding answers to internal friction that was almost tearing apart our party and her members and becoming a threat to our quest of taking back power at important elective levels in the state”, he said. ABG represented Kaduna North at the Federal House of Representatives from 2011 to 2015 in APC before he later joined PDP.Attachments area