From John Adams, Minna A Non Governmental Organisation (NGO), the New Approach in partnership with the Hydro Power Producing Areas Development Commission (HYPPADEC) has distributed tents and other relief materials worth millions of Naira to victims of bandits attacks and flood disaster who are displaced from their homes in Niger State. No fewer than 12 local government areas, two from each of the six states of the HYPPADEC ravaged by insecurity and flood disaster will benefit from the gesture. Flagging off the distribution of the relief items which include rice, mattresses, among others in Kuta, the headquarters of Shiroro Local Government Area, one of the councils most devastated by insecurity in Niger State. The international financial partner said the support was meant to assist the suffering and bring succour to the effected people who have lost everything, and forced to relocate from their homes. In the last five years of banditry in the state, over 20,000 people have been forced to relocate from their ancestral homes. They  are currently sheltering at various inhabitable camps. The project director, New Approach on Rural Programme and Skill Development said the organisation decided to embark on the provision of the make-shift-shelter called “Rescue Village” to vulnerable people across the HYPPADEC states as part their contributions to the suffering of the people. He disclosed that the New Approach, in collaboration with the HYPPADEC would provide a total of 240 make-shift shelters in the 12 Rescue Villages with 20 tents in each of the two local government across the six states of Niger, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Benue and Plateau. The Managing Director HYPPADEC, Alhaji Abubakar Sadiq Yelwa while thanking the NGO for partnering the commission to reach out to the victims, disclosed that thousands of people had been displaced from their home with no shelters. Niger State Governor Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Ahmed Ibrahim Matane, applauded New Approach, and HYPPADEC for their intervention in bringing hope to the people.