By Chinyere Anyanwu     Prof. Mikhail Buhari, the University of Ilorin Deputy Vice Chancellor, has disclosed that the university will commission its poultry farm project on July 21. He made the disclosure during a pre-commissioning facility tour of the farm located at Amoyo in Ifelodun Local Government Area of Kwara State. Buhari, who is also the Chairman of the Farm Project, stated that the commercial poultry farm is financed by a N600 million loan facility from the Central Bank of Nigerian (CBN). He said the formal inauguration would be hosted by the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of the University Governing Council, Mallam Abidu Rafindadi Yazidu, and the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Sulyman Abdulkareem. He added that the epoch-making event is also expected to be graced by dignitaries from all walks of life, including Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq; CBN deputy governors and some directors as well as heads of sister institutions of higher learning and prominent traditional rulers from across the state. He described the farm project as “a game changer” in the annals of creativity in ivory towers leadership in Nigeria. He pointed out that the project would contribute to the country’s efforts towards attaining self-sufficiency in poultry production and boost employment opportunities for Nigerian youths. He described the project as a success story in view of the positive changes it has brought to the people of the host community and the transformation of an hitherto sleepy region into a busy and economically viable one. According to him, the farm has started with semi-automated production of chicks and its products. “The farm has in stock over 25,000 broilers and 17,000 layers. Its products would certainly bridge the gap between the demand and supply of protein-yielding food. Apart from the insurance on the farm, well trained experts are also on the farm to perpetuate its successes,” he said. Buhari expressed optimism that the university would make a lot of money from the farm as everything generated from it, including waste materials, would be sold towards earning more money, which would boost the institution’s internally generated revenue.