Nathaniel Ikhena popularly known as Nate is a Nigerian Afro pop musical artiste and song writer based in the US. He majors in Afrobeat fusion and pop and infuses other genre of music to achieve a unique sound. Nate was Born in Edo state Nigeria on 7th of march 1990 into a family of four, He graduated from Madonna University in Nigeria as a Bio Chemist in 2011. Then he moved to the US to further his studies in the Grand Canyon University Phoenix. Nate’s passion for music started in his early childhood when he joined the choir in his local church in Edo state Nigeria. He formed a musical group called “De Circles” and they released couple of songs which rock the Nigerian Air waves as at that time.  He officially started his career as a single artiste in the US in 2015 and has worked with couple of artiste in the states both in the afro beat and other genre. His ability to be creative not just with afro beat fusion but with different sounds and genre makes him acceptable to all and hence creating more opportunities to work with various artiste all over the world as a singer and song writer. “Man like Nate” as he is sometimes called by his fans, has dropped his brand new single titled “Kolo” which is currently trending online with influencers having dance steps for it. In this competitive Afrobeat Nigeria music industry, Nate’s unique sounds makes him stand out from the rest. Nate is an independent artiste but he is in partnership with Award winning Nigeria music production brand Emiz beatz. During the interview, In his words he says “Nate is not just an artiste but a global brand who also supports other young artiste struggling with writing great lyrics for their songs”. and so far Nate has written songs for couple of artiste both up coming and big artiste, both locally and internationally. his input has made a huge impact in the music career of so manyartist. Also he described the uniqueness of his sound and contents as compared to none hence he said in his word “I have all it takes to be a global brand” and indeed he is.