From Adanna Nnamani, Abuja When the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) was created in 1978, it was seen as a unique platform to address inherent challenges such as poor staff salaries, dilapidated learning environment and facilities in tertiary institutions. Unfortunately, 44 years after, the challenges have not only remained unaddressed, they keep growing in leaps and bounds, resulting in endless industrial actions and bastardising tertiary education in Nigeria. Mr. Yemi Yusuf, a parent with three undergraduates in public universities, said: “This strike is a huge challenge that is contributing to the country’s problems and may even result in a national disaster. There are already concerns for the growing crime rate among the youth. “This protracted strike will only balloon it. The idle man is the ‘devil’s workshop.’ More youths are getting involved in cyber crime, kidnapping, robbery, prostitution and even ritualism. This is because they are not busy doing anything worthwhile. “I would advise any student at home now to enrol to learn a skill. That is the best way to utilise this time appropriately. Because wasted time can never be regained. “The world over, lecturers and teachers are highly revered. They are the custodians and moulders of young minds and ultimately the bedrock of any society. But here, they are made to use their blood as ink and their backs as classroom boards. The pay is low, the operating environment very harsh and the morale of lecturers also low. “Rather than enforce the needless rule of no work, no pay, let the Federal Government fulfil all outstanding obligations it has with ASUU. It amounts to federal deceit to hold meetings with ASUU, make bogus promises and enthusiastically renege in the end. “The problem is that the Federal Government has not shown convincing evidence that it holds education so dearly and wants to address the inherent challenges.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video Mrs. Bunmi Dipo-Salami, chief executive officer (CEO), Baobab for Women, said: “It is difficult to say whether or not the extension is necessary because I don’t walk in their shoes. But if one were to listen to ASUU’s complaints over the government’s persistent failure to implement agreements and memoranda of understanding, one cannot but notice that the union’s current position derives from their lack of trust in the government.  “This is not the first time ASUU will go on strike. From its recent history, it has been shown that they have never gotten anything from the government without a strike action. The question to ask is why should the government wait for it to go on strike before looking into its complaints? “It is clear that the students will be impacted negatively by the strike as they would not be taught during the period and they might have the academic year extended.  What else can one ask the government to do other than to demonstrate trust in its dealings with ASUU and Nigerians in general?” Mr. Folaranmi David, a drug abuse activist: “I honestly think this strike is unnecessary not just considering the problem it will cost and cause the students directly involved but the ripple effect of the damage it will cost the society “I strongly believe that the strike is not the only tool for universities to demand what they want from the Federal Government. ASUU and Federal Government are doing this because it’s not affecting them in any way but the poor masses. “They don’t care if average Nigerian students go to school or not. It’s just their selfish interest they want to satisfy. The students are in the middle of this heavyweight battle between the FG and ASUU and it has become a case of the grass suffering when two elephants fight. “It is unfortunate but our government is insensitive to the plight of the average Nigerian. I will advise the private sector to be more involved in providing university education. If there are more privately owned universities with affordable fees then, there will be viable options for students to turn to. “However, that cannot be achieved overnight. So, we call on both parties to end this strike immediately so the students affected can return to school.” A lecturer at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), who didn’t want his name mentioned, said he had since dedicated his time to his side hues as a master of ceremonies to make ends meet pending when the strike would be called off: “The whole situation is frustrating. Some of my colleagues have adopted one form of menial job or the other to make ends meet, especially as the government has been very sluggish in its response to the union’s demands.” He expressed hope that the union would come out victorious and that it would impact the universities positively in the end. Another lecturer at the Abia State University, Uturu, who also spoke anonymously, said: “The strike and the ‘No work, no pay’ rule enforced by the Federal Government has affected my finances terribly. It even robbed me of getting married anytime soon. I spent most of my savings waiting for the strike to be suspended. “I wish government would listen to our plight and grant ASUU’s demands immediately. I am really tired of staying at home. I have spent almost all my savings already trying to keep body and soul together while waiting for the strike to be called off. “I intended settling down by end of the year. As it is now, I doubt if that is still possible because my finances have totally depreciated.” He, however, stated that the knowledge that the struggle was for a better welfare for him and that of the Nigerian students served as a consolation to him.