By Lukman Olabiyi Participants at this year’s Ojude Oba Festival in Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State, didn’t let the rain steal their shine. They remained adamant in the rain as they gathered on July 11, 2022, to showcase their age-long culture. They dared the rains and braved all odds. The annual festival,usually hosted by the Awujale and Paramount Ruler of Ijebu land, Oba Kayode Sikiru Adetona  went on a two-year hiatus due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It was last held in 2019. Ojude-Oba is a socio-cultural festival aimed at fostering religious tolerance and harmony, not only in Ijebu, but also in the state and Nigeria in general. It is a colourful display of the rich culture of the people. It takes place every third day after Eid al-Kabir (Ileya), to pay homage and show respect to the Awujale. It is one of the most spiritual and glamorous festivals celebrated in Ijebuland. Different cultural age groups known as “Regberegbe”, indigenes, friends and associates are made to parade at the front of the king’s palace. Ojude Oba  simply means king’s fore-court in Yoruba Language and is usually celebrated with Pomp and pageantry.  It personalities from all walks of life and all over the world. Due to the two-year break, this year’s edition attracted huge crowds. It brought its own economic blessings. Many small scale businesses and artisans like tailors , transporters , beauticians and make-up artists smiled to the banks as a result of high demand for their services. Kamoru, an artisan, confessed: “We made good gains during the festival. Some clients, in attempt to get our attention for quick service,  even out-smarted themselves with good offers to us.” Restaurants, hotels, shopping malls and courier service providers were not left out. On the morning of the event, the palace of Awujale,, came alive with ceremonial parades of colourful clothes popular called “Aso Ebi.” Indigenes, attired in beaded materials, led processions in batches to pay homage to the king. After the rites, they filed into the Royal Arcade in front of the palace to settle for the elaborate ceremony with Apala musician, Musiliu Ishola, electrifying the arena. The entry of Governor Dapo Abiodun alongside his counterpart from Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was the special guest of honour, ignited the venue. They stopped at each gallery, acknowledged greetings from the Regberegbes and the crowd before taking their seats in the VIP pavilion with Oba Adetona. The Regberegbes, 57 in all, decked in colourful attires, displayed the class and panache while paying homage and obeisance to the king. Another interesting moment was horse riding into the arena by Balogun (warriors) families. The horse riders showcased dexterity. The Kuku family, led by Dr. Sunny Folorunso Kuku, was particularly spectacular. Its  entry threw the venue into a frenzy. The family came in horse riding show. Five persons won tricycles in the raffle draw sponsored by Globacom. The Hausa community also attended in their numbers. The Chief Imam of Ijebu-Ode and grand Imam of Ijebu land, Sheikh Miftaudeen Ayangbadejo Gbadegesin, said the opening prayers. Chairman, Planning Committee, Wahab Osinusi, thanked God for the return of the festival after a two-year break. He urged the people to be mindful of the security challenges confronting the nation. “Remain calm, peaceful and be law abiding throughout the duration of the festival and even after.” Sanwo-Olu said: “The Ojude Oba Festival has, for ages, stayed true to its Islamic roots and has also expanded to become a unifying symbol and occasion for people of all faiths, tribes and tongues; as well as a global celebration of Ijebu heritage and culture. “We must never lose sight of this unifying element, at a time when the forces of division seem to be working so actively to undermine all that we cherish as a people. Celebrations like Ojude Oba remind us that evil will never triumph over good.” Sanwo-Olu, who became the third sitting Lagos governor to be so invited, said the festival had become an enduring platform fostering unity. In the spirit of the unity for which the festival is reputed, he urged the entire Yoruba race to forge a common front in support of Bola Tinubu, a Yoruba son and leading presidential candidate in the next year general elections. The opportunity for Yoruba to produce the next president must not be allowed to slip away: “Tinubu has made several sacrifices to keep the Yoruba race relevant in the Nigeria project.” Abiodun said theme of the festival was very apt considering that the festival was not celebrated in the last two years as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. He also joined his age group on display. He said the festival was an opportunity to gather, pay homage to the monarch and plan ahead for the new year: “It is imperative for every son and daughter of Ijebuland to take the opportunity of the festival to plan for the continued development of Ijebu-Ode, Ijebuland and the state. “We will continue to put in place measures to develop the tourism sector.” He reiterated his administration’s commitment to reviving the Olokola Deep Seaport project. Oba Adetona said Sanwo-Olu had become a shining star in the present class of public officers, distinguishing himself with service-centred leadership. This, he said,  endeared him to the citizens beyond the boundaries of Lagos and established his name as a symbol of responsive governance in the country. Other dignataries at the event were Ogun State Deputy Governor, Naimot Salako-Oyedele, some members of the Lagos State Executive Council, former governors Segun Osoba and Gbenga Daniel and founder, First City Monument Bank (FCMB), Otunba Subomi Balogun.