I was on Premium 88.9 FM, Abak, Akwa Ibom State, last Friday. I had been invited by general manager of the station, Mr. Anietie Idok, to preview-promote our independent production, the witty Parlour Game, 20 Questions, that was making its debut on the station later that day. My on-air host, Inemesit George, I found out later, was a third year Communication Arts/Media Studies student at the University of Uyo. I couldn’t be prouder of my alma mater and also of the new faculty at which I’m currently pursuing a master’s in broadcasting. The precocious radio anchor reminded me too much of my budding years. It was on UniUyo 100.7 FM that he was spotted, invited, auditioned and subsequently handed this bigger stage. Exactly my story except that, in my case, no one invited me; I invited myself. Along with two Communication Arts students (Jacob Jacobs and Junior Daniels) at the time (mid ‘90s), I co-founded what was then just a campus radio station. While running programmes, at some point even rising to the position of General Manager, I began to nurse the ambition of being a presenter on the only FM station in the state at the time, Radio Akwa Ibom 90.5 FM. I wrote a letter to the then Deputy Director Programmes, Mr Okon Atakpo, and six months later was invited for audition. This 1992/93 event was supervised by three women (Rosalyn Effiong, Margaret Eshiet -of blessed memory- and Imaobong Udo). The man who’s today Prof. Mbuk Mboho was General Manager of AKBC (acronym for the umbrella body for the state government’s radio and television stations) while the late Rev. Father Francis Mbaba was Director of the Radio Service. The rest is not only history but also a developing story of talent, patience, commitment, hard work capped by grace. Let’s get back to my encounter with Inemesit George. As I sat across, fielding his battery of questions one after the other, I couldn’t help but reflect on my past while simultaneously wondering if emerging broadcasters like him realise and are therefore grateful enough for the ground-softening efforts by the Federal Government’s 1992 deregulation or privatisation policy. I know that something untoward -especially in the area of quality, all-round- has happened to the broadcasting subsector since Abuja opened up the space but you cannot wave away the monumental gains, quantity-wise. Without the former Military President Ibrrahim Babangida having been that futuristic 30 years back in time, a young person like Inemesit George would today be praying and fasting and hoping for a platform by the time he graduates. Not so now. There are media platforms all over the place -except you are not interested or are among the worst of the worst. Media professionals and owners must from time to time spare a prayer of thanksgiving for IBB who yesterday saw the tomorrow that today has become. So, what has everything I have said hitherto to do with our theme today? Well, one is the impression Mr George had on me. When you have put 29 years and counting into a trade, no starter can come along and hold you spellbound like that, right? Wrong: you have not listened to or been interviewed by Inemesit George. Secondly, even more importantly, our today focus is instigated in the main by something the Premium FM interviewer asked or repeated or suggested throughout the hour we spent together. He alluded to our charity works on and off air, over the last three decades, such as Bush House Hospitals (which entailed cleaning up hospital premises, clearing bills of every patient present and advertising the capacity of each medical facility visited), scholarship grants, mentoring prowess, House of Help, etc., wanting to know why someone who has had quite a difficult journey has tended to want everything easy for everyone. I thought that was a profound question and, if you like, the highpoint of the session. Many thanks, dear Inemesit George: Bush House Nigeria owes you one. Which brings us to the main course of this entry. What drives you or put differently, what’s the essence of your life? If it’s hate or jealousy or wickedness or cultism or the occult or indeed any of the other variants of evil, my question is: is that why God sent you to the earth? Are you in God’s purpose when all you live for is to kill, to steal, to destroy?  For me, and this is the answer I gave Inemesit George, the Premium On-Air-Personality, verse 14 of chapter 4 of the Bible Book of Esther is my forever guiding light. It ministers to me 25 hours a day, when I am awake and when I am asleep. When I remember that someone else would get it done if I don’t, I double my efforts. Please read it for yourself and get some sense: “For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall there enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place; but thou and thy father’s house shall be destroyed: and who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this?” It is the last line for me. Who knows whether God positioned me on earth for such a role as charity? Who knows whether my own ministry (since Global Ba’aba, Dr. Abel Damina, insists everyone is a minister of God) is to help humanity, especially the poor? What do I lose sef if all I do day by day is help people to have a better life? Even if you can’t, please, join me today; let’s make our world more conducive. When and where you should retaliate or punish, forgive. When and where you should hate or kill, love. When and where you should drag on social media or shame, reconcile. When and where you should divorce or send packing, tolerate. When and where you should condemn or denounce, teach. When and where you should disown or render homeless, accommodate. When and where you should oppress or suppress, empower. Even to those who think you an enemy, spread love -only love. If love and hate showed up and you were told to pick hate to live, please don’t. Hate is the devil: it never gives good gifts nor does it ever bear good fruit. Life given by hate is death; one untold misery on earth. Show a little kindness today. Show a little kindness every day. That is your whole essence on earth. Our Creator who also is the Owner of the earth and everywhere and everything else is a loving Father. We cannot and should not resemble Satan, our Father’s fallen enemy, who’s only known for hate, for bitterness and for everything negative. Well, except, you’re Satan’s pikin; in which case I give up. Oh no, I know better, I won’t give up on you because God never would. Take your place today in God’s family and enjoy the grace, the mercies and the favours that never dry up. God bless Nigeria!