The Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) has entered into an agreement with Vitol to establish a joint venture that will enable both firms invest in a range of carbon avoidance and removals projects. The pact will enable both companies to invest in projects in Nigeria, partnering with local Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) that have previously got involved in related projects that contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. According to a statement by NSIA, both firms are expected to make an initial commitment of $50million to this new venture. The new venture is open to new investors as the partners develop the project pipeline, it said. NSIA said the initiative will seek to mobilise voluntary market carbon capital from the partners and potential third parties in a small step toward a more equitable energy transition for Africa. Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, NSIA, Mr Uche Orji, said the Authority was committed to playing a leading role in advancing climate solutions that will lower Nigeria’s carbon emissions. Orji expressed optimism that the NSIA’s partnership with Vitol will be key to establishing and accelerating carbon reduction and avoidance in Nigeria. He said this will be achieved by providing an enabling platform to trade carbon credits. He said, “NSIA is committed to playing a leading role in advancing Climate Solutions that help to lower Nigeria’s carbon emission as an integral part of its ESG strategy. “NSIA expects that the partnership with Vitol will be key to establishing and accelerating carbon reduction and avoidance in Nigeria by providing an enabling platform to trade carbon credits, while channelling investments in sustainable projects to deliver emission-reduction results. “We are therefore very pleased to be working with Vitol to channel our investments in sustainable projects to deliver emission-reduction results as well as significant socio-economic outcomes that will be of benefit to Nigerians.” Also speaking, the Head of Environmental Products, Vitol, Michael Curran, said the company had been investing in high-quality carbon mitigating projects globally for over 10 years. He said the company was delighted to be partnering with the NSIA to support Nigeria’s efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through projects that address critical environmental and climate threats. Curran said: “Vitol has been investing in high-quality carbon mitigating projects globally for over a decade, with a recent focus on sub-Saharan Africa. “We are delighted to be partnering with NSIA to support Nigeria’s national efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through projects that address critical environmental and climate threats. “The projects will have a clear focus on delivering social benefits, alongside the highest standards of carbon offsetting.”