United States-based board member and Performance Director of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN), Victor Okorie, has revealed how American universities saved Nigeria from spending over $40,000 (about 26 Million) on flight tickets for athletes to attend the recently concluded National Trials in Benin city, where they were selected for Oregon 2022 World Athletics Championship and the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham, England.  Okorie, who also heads AFN’s Liaison Department, stated that the present board headed by Tonobok Okowa is bent on doing things differently with the sole aim of portraying Nigeria’s image in good light as against the ‘dubious steps’ taken by some board members in the past.   He stated that as Performance director and liaison officer of AFN, he had been able to build a good rapport with most Nigerian athletes and their coaches in the United States and Canada.   ‘While talking with these coaches, I was told that in the past no one has ever called to know how these athletes are doing. They also complained that in the past, no one has given them heads up on when the athletes are needed to represent Nigeria. They really appreciate me calling them on a weekly basis to ask about the well-being of the athletes. In return, I tell them that this is what our President wants. He wants things done differently from the previous board and that is why he appointed me to carry out that vision.  Okorie continues; “The rapport that I have built with these coaches, athletics directors and University Presidents enabled me to tell them to book tickets for our athletes when they are needed to compete for Nigeria. One example was the World Indoor championship when Texas Tech bought a ticket for Ruth Usoro to attend the Championships in Belgrade, Serbia in March this year. All our  athletes, except one or two, had their tickets purchased by their Universities for the National Trials in Benin city last week. I can tell you that I have saved over $40,000 dollars in flight ticket money for the AFN/Sports Ministry. It is through the rapport that I built over the years that helped me to achieve this.” Okorie, who won silver medal in 400m hurdles for Nigeria at COJA 2003 All African Games in Abuja listed athletes whose tickets were paid by their Universities to include Ashe Favour, Rosemary Chukwuma, Grace Nwokocha, Godson Brume, Amarachi Obi, Knowledge Omovoh, Ruth Usoro, Udodi Onwuzurike, Emmanuel Imeh, Ezekiel Nathaniel, Prosper Chinecherem, Ima Obong and Ezinne Abba.