This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. A Peoples Democratic Party  (PDP) chairmanship candidate in Saturday’s elections in Lagos State, Auwal Tahir Maude, has expressed confidence in the Lagos State Electoral Commission (LASIEC) to conduct a credible poll. Maude, who is of northern extraction, is the PDP candidate for Agege Local Government Area. The politician, popularly known as ATM, explained that his confidence was based on the assurance by the leadership of LASIEC to ensure a level play playing ground for all the political parties. He added that his confidence was particularly buoyed by LASIEC chairperson’s warning that any electoral official who involves in election malpractices risks jail term. Said he, “I am looking forward to a credible election on Saturday and I have so much confidence in the leadership of LASIEC in giving the people a level playing ground in exercising their civic rights. The chairperson of the electoral body also sounded a warning to all the electoral officers that anyone involved in malpractices should be ready to go to jail and I have so much trust in her”, Maude stated. The engineering graduate of the University of Port Harcourt, who mentioned  provision of security, basic education, employment and infrastructure as his focus, expressed optimism that he would emerge victorious on Saturday. He, however, urged the people of Agege to come out enmasse and vote for the candidate of their choice on Saturday and ensure to  their votes are counted. “I know I am running against some big guns in the ruling party, APC in the state. I am also aware that I am contesting in a local government where the Speaker of the State of Assembly hails from. But I don’t see these as challenges that can stop me. “What we are doing is a movement that has been embraced by the majority of Agege people. People are tired of the failures of the past and they are yearning for the real change. Our strength lies with the people, and they are ready to stand up against any form of intimidation or manipulation from anyone. They have vowed to vote, stand and watch their votes counted and monitor the results until we are announced winner on Saturday”. Maude submitted.