From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari Friday in Abuja declared that the off-season elections in Anambra, Ekiti and Osun States have confirmed his administration’s irreversible commitment to credible and violence-free polls in the country. According to a statement by Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, Buhari said this when he received a delegation from Nasarawa State. The President urged voters to vote for the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the upcoming general elections to ensure polity continuity and stability in the country and West African region. He told a high-powered delegation led by Governor Abdullahi Sule that the Electoral Act, which he signed earlier this year, was proof of the administration’s determination and commitment to the rule of law. “My desire for our nation is that the 2023 elections should clearly mark the commencement of the institutional strength of our electoral body in conducting acceptable, credible and violence-free elections. “The forthcoming general elections will provide us with the opportunity to convince the electorate on the need for continuity to enable our party to consolidate on our achievements in the last 7 years. “The Government and people of Nasarawa State, as usual, have a great role to play in returning our party to governance in the 2023 elections, in order to create a path for greater socio- economic growth and development. This is not only important for Nigeria alone but also for the West African Sub-Region.” Buhari described Nasarawa as a symbol of hope and determination in collective efforts to establish democracy in Nigeria, noting that the state remains very close to his heart. He recalled how, in 2011, the state stood out as the only state that compensated the political efforts in the then-Congress for Progressive Change, defying rigging and ensuring that their voices were heard. The President also stressed the need for partnerships among the three tiers of government in order to deliver good governance, infrastructure and critical services needed by the people. He pledged commitment to the joint-efforts by the state and the Federal Governments to facilitate easy transportation by road, railways and airports as well as power. Governor Sule told the President that the delegation comprising political office holders, royal fathers and community leaders was in the Villa to show appreciation for the numerous projects executed by the Buhari Administration which Nasarawa State ‘‘is among the great beneficiaries.”