From Oluseye Ojo, Osogbo The Osun State Security Network Agency, codenamed Amotekun Corps, Government House Annex, Okefia, Osogbo, has urged its operatives to get their ‘Afican science’ ready for usage in today’s governorship poll in the state with a view to maintaining peace and order across the state. The Field Commander of Amotekun Corps in the state, Amitolu Shittu, gave the urge in a statement made available to journalists in Osogbo on Friday. He, however, directed them to appear in mufti and should not go to polling units to exercise their franchise with anything, other than their permanent voter cards (PVCs) and their African science. He also enjoined them to complement the efforts of other security agencies, deployed to work during the conduct of today’s poll. The statement read in part: “This is to bring to your notice that all commanders should comport themselves in a peaceful manner in the forthcoming gubernatorial election on Saturday 16th July, 2022. It is commendable to appreciate the state government that employed and empowered you. But it is important that you must not be forward in your actions and reactions as law-abiding citizens of Nigeria. You must conduct yourself in a peaceful manner devoid of any controversy as the law has no respect for violators. “The Area Commanders and Local Government Commanders of Amotekun in Osun State must conduct and organise the men under them very peacefully. You are to perform your civic right in mufti. Do not go to any polling unit with any material except your voters card. Remember to have with you all your tested and confirmed African Science materials. All your observations and reports must be sent to: #Amotekunosunsituationbase. “In case any of you foresee or discover any looming crisis in your polling unit of observation you are to relay the information to the Police officer around, the Department of State Security Service officer and other accredited professional security officers saddled with election monitoring responsibilities.”