By Kate Halim Following the announcement that Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of Labour Party, has officially unveiled Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed as his running mate for the 2023 presidential election, the internet has been agog with excitement. Baba-Ahmed, the founder of Baze University, Abuja was unveiled as Obi’s running mate at the party headquarters in Abuja on Friday. He was born in Zaria in the 1970s. Baba-Ahmed has a Bachelor of Science (Bsc) and Masters of Sciences (Msc) in Economics from the University of Maiduguri, Borno State. On different social media platforms, social media users are optimistic that with Obi’s choice, Nigeria is headed for better governance. Majority of these Nigerians are making posts and dropping comments on social media posts to support Obi’s choice of vice president.  A Facebook user, Munachiso Omoleme said that both men have the same ideology and mindset before now. She added that it was as if God has been preparing the two of them for a time like this to lead Nigerians to a new era. Another Facebook user, Edward Amah stated if one checks the profile of Baba-Ahmed and what he is doing at Baze University, then one will understand that Nigeria will do well with the super economist as the Vice President. “Two extremely intelligent men ruling a country like Nigeria would be one of the greatest miracles the world has seen in this century”, he said. One Obasanjo Oluwasogo revealed that Obi and Baba-Ahmed are the best brains to deploy for the national assignment to rescue Nigeria. He added that aside their educational qualifications, they have built successful careers, established lasting businesses, value human capital and abhor corruption. Another Facebook user, Isabella Iloka wrote: “A vibrant, sound, 48-year-old man from Kaduna. Have you heard him speak before? You will fall in love with him.” Queens Ozegbe Obaze wrote: “This is a much better option that what other parties are presenting. These two men are young, vibrant and charismatic men who are truly hungry to change Nigeria. If the election was a job interview without any religious or ethnic attachment, I am sure no sensible employer who wants to run a successful business will employ old men over young, cerebral team of Peter Obi and Baba-Ahmed.” Frank Abah said: “Who wouldn’t love these two young, energetic, intelligent, forward looking and detribalized men who are committed to rescuing Nigeria from a deadly clutch of corrupt, unrepentant and ethnically swayed old politicians? The persons who wouldn’t love these two are undoubtedly enemies of Nigeria and haters of good things.” Kingsley Nzemechi said: “This is a great combination. Obi and Baba-Ahmed are two people who have the same ideology for the development of Nigeria. They are very competent and possess a good dose of integrity. They will give this country a paradigm shift. The choice before Nigerians is very simple, whether we want to live or die as a nation depends on what we do by February 2023.” Emeka Osani said: “With these two men at the helm of affairs of this great nation, our tax payer’s money will be saved from incessant medical treatment abroad. This is a wonderful combination and I hope it becomes a reality for the betterment of Nigerians.” Peter Uche Ezeonye said: “Mr. Peter Obi is huge on economics while Dr. Yusuf Datti Ahmed is huge on education. This is a match. These two undoubtedly will move Nigeria forward.”