Kenneth Udeh As part of her commitment towards uplifting the standard of education in the state, the senator representing Anambra Central Senatorial District, Uche Ekwunife, on Thursday commenced the distribution of the second batch of classroom furniture to selected schools in the zone.   According to Ekwunife her gesture is borne out of her commitment towards ensuring that her constituents acquire the best education in a conducive learning environment.   Speaking during the distribution exercise, the headmistress of Central Primary School, Obeledu, Anaocha LGA, Mrs. Asuzu R. M lauded Ekwunife for her people-centered representation, saying that her passion to raise the bar of excellence in representation is incomparable. She noted that the strides recorded by Ekwunife in the National Assembly would outlive generations.   According to the headmistress who was represented by Mrs. Amajuo Caroline; “The constituents will reward Ekwunife with another mandate to continue with her effective representation in the red chamber.”   In his remarks, the Vice Chairman School Based Management Committee of the school, Comrade Paulinus Onwubuogu expressed that the rare gesture was timely, adding that lack of classroom furniture has been one of challenges facing the school.   He thanked the lawmaker for coming to their rescue, while assuring that the Obeledu community and the management of the school will massively support her re-election bid to the National Assembly for uninterrupted dividends of democracy.   Speaking on behalf of the pupils, Miss Maryann Emeuwa urged constituents who have attained the age of 18 to endeavour to register for their PVC and vote Ekwunife into the National Assembly. She described her as a promise keeping lawmaker and prayed for her success in the upcoming general elections.   Earlier, the Chairman Senate Committee on Science, Technology and Innovation who was represented by her legislative aide, Mrs. Ify Chinwuko noted that she would continue to contribute to the development of the education sector.