Nigeria’s fastest growing commercial bank, PremiumTrust Bank opened to customers in Abuja yesterday, to raise itys network to  six in less than 90 days of commencing full banking operations.  Speaking at the tape cutting event, its managing director Emmanuel Emefienim, appreciated the Central Bank of Nigeria for its support.  He also acommended the bank’s customers for their patronage. “ We are on board with CBN in its financial inclusion policy in its drive to grow the economy, enable businesses and improve lives’’.  He highlighted that PremiumTrust Bank was recently announced as the Official Banker for the National Sports Festival, 2022.  ‘’ Our solid partnership with the National Sports Festival and by extension, the Federal Government of Nigeria re- affirms our commitment in fostering unity in our diversity as a nation through sports and providing the needed platform for our youths to grow in their chosen fields; excel at the National and global stages.’ This is consistent with the bank’s tagline- Together for growth.  He said the Abuja Business office  will serve as a major hub for the bank and in the coming months, more branches will be opened.  We will then complement brick and mortar with digital offerings, leveraging technology to ensure that our customers enjoy the best of Premium services with speed of execution across the country.’’ The Permanent secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance Alhaji Aliyu Shehu Shinkafi  speaking on behalf of the Minister for Finance, congratulated PremiumTrust Bank on the numerous feats it has achieved in just a short while of operations and encouraged them not to rest on their oars while the representative of the Honorable Minister of the FCT, Hon. Lukman Agboola Dabiri  assured  of FCT’s support in providing an enabling environment  for the Bank to do business in Abuja.  Pastor Dr. Paul Enenche, the founding pastor of Dunamis International Gospel Centre thereafter conducted the  tape cutting to formally commission PremiumTrust Bank, Abuja Branch.  Other dignitaries in attendance  include Honorable Khadija Bukar Abba Ibrahim, former Minister of State for Foreign Affairs and member of the House of Representatives; Asishana Okauru Esq., Director-General Nigerian Governors’ Forum and Mr. Samuel Okojere, Director Banking Services, CBN amongst others.