By Monica Iheakam As Super Falcons of Nigeria prepare to face South Africa in the opening game of  Group C of the 12th African Women Championship in Morocco today, Daily Sun Sports takes a look at the championship rivalry that exists between the two teams  as they clash at the Stade Prince Moulay Al Hassan in Rabat. Super Falcons  have the bragging rights and remain the most successful African women’s team at the CAF  Women’s African Cup of Nations (WAFCON) after winning nine out of the 11 editions of the competition. The two teams have met eight times with Nigeria winning six of those matches. Both teams faced each other for the very first time in the African Women Championship on November 25, 2000 in Boksburg  South Africa. Falcons whipped the South African ladies 2-0 the  packed Vosloorus Stadium in the match which was incidentally the final of the tournament. The winning streak continued for the Nigerian girls two years later at the Oghara Stadium in Delta state in 2002 with Bayana Bayana bowing 0-5 to the  superior fireworks of Super Falcons. The Super Falcons did not spare the South Africans in 2006 at their third meeting at the Oleh Township Stadium, Delta State with the game ending 2-0 thanks to Cythia Uwak. The fourth encounter between both sides in 2008 was decided on a neutral ground – this time at the Estadio La Libertad in Bata, Equatorial Guinea. Ifeanyi Chiejine’s 16th minute strike was enough to silence the hard fighting Banyana. Even as hosts of the 2010 edition, South Africa could not halt Nigeria’s bravery as they bowed 2-1 before home fans who came to watch the second Group A game at the Sinaba Stadium in Daveyton. After five failed expeditions, Banyana got their first victory against the Super Falcons at the Nkoantoma Stadium in Equatorial Guinea in 2012. The last WAFCON was played in 2018 in Ghana and saw Nigeria claim a record-extending 9th title after defeating South Africa 4-3 on penalties in the final. The South Africans avenged that 2018 final loss when they defeated the Nigerians 4-2 to win the inaugural edition of the Aisha Buhari Cup last year. Now under  the tutelage of American coach Randy Waldrum, the team will be aiming for  a record extending 10th  title even as they hope to secure one of the four slots at stake for  next year’s FIFA Women’s World Cup .