From Okwe Obi, Abuja A former National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has congratulated Osun State Governor- elect Senator Ademola Adeleke, on his victory at the Saturday’s gubernatorial poll. Prince Secondus, in a statement yesterday by his Special Adviser on Media, Ike Abonyi, said that the victory was an affirmation of the people’s goodwill in appreciation of the efforts of the Adelekes in the development of the state. He also praised Governor Duoye Diri of Bayelsa State and the National Campaign team, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo state who manned the situation room, the Chairman of Governors Forum, Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto state, ex-Senate President, Bukola Saraki and the National Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu and his NWC and others. He extended his message to those who contributed to the victory in particular, the PDP 2023 Presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar and his Vice Presidential candidate, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. According to him, the people of Osun stood for democracy through their avowed determination to ensure that their will and nobody else prevailed in the state. “By this brave and courageous act, Osun people have shown their determination to take their collective destiny in their own hands and for this PDP and all lovers of democracy are proud of them. “Prince Secondus also lavished praises for all those who contributed greatly to the sweet victory in particular, Governor Duoye Diri of Bayelsa State and his National Campaign team, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo state who manned the situation room, the Chairman of Governors Forum, Hon Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto state, former Senate President Bukola Saraki and the National leadership of the party. “Not to forget the exemplary leadership and yeoman efforts of the Presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar and his Vice Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. “He also commended the civil society groups for checkmating the electoral system for good results,” he said. He maintained that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and the various security operatives played by the rules. “We are standing on the euphoria of this to urge the INEC and other critical players. “In our democracy to ensure that 2023 reflects the will of the people. “The former PDP boss also has positive words for the international community for their vital interests in the country’s democracy and urged them not to relent until the people’s will continues to prevail in all electoral circumstances. “Prince Secondus recalls that four years ago international community openly decried the electoral fraud in Osun state gubernatorial poll and said this year is a significant and positive departure. “Finally, Prince Secondus while wishing the victors successful tenure, charged them to observe all the tenets of democracy and rule of law in the course of administering the state,” he added.