Osun State Government has described as untrue, claim by the Governor-elect, Ademola Adeleke, and the PDP that government officials are diverting or looting government assets and property. It further accused the PDP of peddling lies and propaganda just to curry underserved public sympathy, insisting that Governor Adegboyega Oyetola does not have a background of pilfering or misappropriating funds, saying the records are there for all to see and deduce from. The governor-elect had, in a statement by his spokesperson, Olawale Rasheed, alleged, among other things, that government officials were already diverting public funds and that the governor had allegedly embarked on borrowing spree. Responding, Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Funke Egbemode, said: “We know where Adeleke, the governor-elect, is coming from, and the world also knows the antecedent of the incumbent governor, Oyetola, the hardworking leader, who has served the people of Osun State meritoriously. He does not have the background of pilfering or misappropriating funds. The records are there for verification.” In a statement, entitled: “Osun PDP’s incurable penchant for falsehood, propaganda,” the state’s spokesperson further said: “We have seen the statement that is in circulation from the camp of Adeleke, poisoning the public with lies and raising false alarms just to heat up the polity, of the state, as is their practice. “We did not take any N17 billion loan to prosecute the election, just as no government official has embarked on any looting or diversion of any government assets/property as being claimed by the PDP. “Those who are suddenly realising the enormity of governing a state like Osun should own up to their fears rather than making laughable allegations. Oyetola has creatively managed the assets of the state in the last three-and-a-half years and has picked all the bills of the state without taking loans. Why would he start taking loans at this time? “Oyetola’s government remains a responsible one that has discharged its duties meritoriously, to the admiration of fellow governors, including those in the opposition. It is time for Adeleke to tell the people how he intends to govern them rather than trying to blame everyone but himself for his fears. Given his admiration for his newly-learnt expression, ‘fact check’, we extend a call to Adeleke to show evidence of pilfering or looting to the people of Osun to prove that he is a man whose words have atoms of believability.”