Regardless, the United States Government has alerted its nationals has issued security advisory to its citizens. The United States Diplomatic Mission to Nigeria, in a July 6 security notice on its website, said: “On the night of July 5, 2022, an attack on Kuje Prison freed a large portion of the estimated 1,000 prisoners. The prison lies approximately 27 miles southwest of the Central Business District.” The United  States further said an increase in crime is expected in and around Abuja, while also saying that “it is recommended that U.S. citizens should maintain a high state of personal security awareness for the next two weeks and avoid unnecessary travel on the airport road.” According to the United States, “Crime is endemic throughout Nigeria and tends to spike after dark.  Avoiding locations and situations that increase the likelihood of being victimized is the best defense.  Avoid displays of valuables and limit nighttime activity.” The United States added that terrorist groups and those inspired by such organisations are intent on attacking U.S. citizens abroad.  “Terrorists are increasingly using less sophisticated methods of attack –including knives, firearms, and vehicles – to target crowds more effectively.  Frequently, their aim is focused on unprotected or vulnerable targets, such as: high-profile public events (sporting contests, political rallies, demonstrations, holiday events, celebratory gatherings, etc.); hotels, clubs, and restaurants frequented by tourists; places of worship, schools, parks, shopping malls and markets, public transportation systems (including subways, buses, trains, and scheduled commercial flights),” the United States said. Amongst other precautions, the United States cautioned its nationals to be aware of their surroundings, keep a low profile, carry proper identification, monitor local media for updates and review personal security plans.       Kuje: UK warns  nationals on safety, security in Nigeria   From Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja The United Kingdom (UK), has warned British citizens in Nigeria about their safety and security in the country. The United Kingdom, in its Foreign Travel Advice on Nigeria, said on July 5, 2022, the Kuje Prison in the Federal Capital Territory was bombed and attacked by gunmen and an unknown number of prisoners have escaped. The British Government said: “You should be extra vigilant if in the area.” The United Kingdom further said on  June 5,  2022, there was a gun attack at a church in Owo, Ondo State, causing at least 40 deaths. “The High Commission are in contact with the local authorities. If you are in the area, you should monitor local media, exercise caution and follow the advice of local authorities,” the United Kingdom said. The United Kingdom further said since August 9,  2021, there has been an increase in protests and demonstrations in the South East region of Nigeria. “Protests, including “Stay at Home” protests, remain likely in the South East region. There have been reports of violence during Stay at Home protests previously. You should monitor local media, avoid any demonstrations or large gatherings and follow any instructions from local police and security forces. “There have been a number of attacks and targeted killings in the South East and South South regions of Nigeria, including in the states of Akwa Ibom, Rivers, Imo, Abia, Anambra, Delta, Edo and Ebonyi. Some of these attacks have been on isolated roads and in remote locations, but there is a chance that they could occur in metropolitan areas. There is also a heightened risk of indiscriminate attacks on police and security infrastructure, which may inadvertently affect bystanders. A number of states have imposed curfews. Travellers to these regions are advised to exercise caution if travelling in remote areas at night and follow local news and information outlets for further information, including on local curfews,” the UK said. …Resign now, HURIWA, ADC tell Buhari Worried by the rising insecurity, civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) and presidential candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), Dumebi Kachikwu, have called on President Muhammadu Buhari to resign. HURIWA’s National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, in a statement, claimed the Buhari administration and the military were cool with the spate of terrorist attacks in the country as they have failed to deploy the 12 Super Tucano fighter jets against terrorists turning the country into another Afghanistan. Kachikwu in a statement, released to journalists in Abuja, yesterday, said the attack on the convoy of the President on its way to Daura, Katsina State and simultaneous attack on Kuje Correctional Centre, were clear signs that the country is now faced with a grave security threat.  He wondered who then is safe if the President’s convoy can be attacked as well as the Kuje Prison, which is just a few kilometers to the seat of power.