By Bimbola Oyesola Organised labour has charged the nation’s political leaders to imbibe the spirit of sacrifice, as the Eid el-Kabir celebration portrays, to take the right decisions and make more reasonable sacrifices to restore the country. The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC), in separate messages, maintained that the occasion of Eid el-Kabir offered Nigerians an opportunity to engage in frank conversations on the need to muster the requisite political will to take the right decisions, make more reasonable  sacrifices, re-enact  God’s love and obey His commands unconditionally. President of NLC, Ayuba Wabba, said the labour centre use the occasion of Eid el-Kabir to remind government to fulfill its promises of the recovery of the nation’s refineries as the only sustainable pathway to end the perennial energy crises in our country;  bring to an end through meaningful discussions the protracted ASUU strike and others as well as invest in green renewable energy. “On security, may we remind government that the primary duty of any government is the security of the lives and property of its citizens.  “The battle to secure lives and property starts with ensuring the welfare of the people through provision of decent jobs, effective public infrastructure and transparent-cum inclusive social protection schemes for the vulnerable and the poorest of the poor in Nigeria. We also call for effective utilization of defense budgets and proper oversight of same by the National Assembly,” he said. The NLC President reasoned that the increasing fragility of nation’s security architecture evidenced by the recent attack on Kuje Prisons which went on unchallenged for hours questions the country’s collective resolve to confront the challenge of security and the seriousness of government on security. He said, “On this Eid-el-Kabir, we encourage Nigerian workers not to despair. It was Kwame Nkrumah that advised us not to agonize but to organize. As we work and watch for a New Nigeria, we once again wish all our Muslim sisters and brothers a memorable and rewarding Eid-el-Kabir.” In the same vein, the TUC President, Quadri Olaleye said the time has come for every Nigerian, especially those in the position of authority to take responsibility for the development of the country, adding that partaking in religious activities alone is not enough; rather “we all should practice what the Holy Quran teaches and stop living hypocritic lives”. He expressed dismay that this year’s celebration is being observed amidst extraordinary circumstances following the recent attack on Kuje, Abuja prison, which led to the fleeing of hundreds of Boko Haram members and other criminals. “The whereabout of these terrorists are unknown, so there is the tendency that people will be somehow apprehensive while moving around; parks may not be able to open and operate fully and the social interactions which are customary during Eid celebrations will be restricted,” he said. The labour leader charged that everyone should turn a new leaf, adding that the period of the Eid celebration is a clarion call for Nigerians to imbibe the lessons of the season such as selfless service to God and humanity as well as a sincere commitment to righteous conducts in private and public life. The Labour Center appealed to all Nigerians to shun those who for selfish reasons fan the embers of primordial sentiments tear the country apart, dwarfing its growth, development making the country rank low among the comity of nations. The Congress said the challenge of the country can only be surmounted when everyone come together in unity.