From Paul Osuyi, Asaba Six suspected armed robbers have been killed during fierce exchange of fire with the police at two separate locations in Delta State. While five were killed in Warri, one was gunned down in Asaba, according to the Public Relations Officer of the state police command, DSP Bright Edafe, who confirmed the development yesterday, in a statement. On both occasions, Edafe said the suspects sustained injuries, adding that they were taken to the hospital where they gave up the ghost. In the Warri incident, Edafe stated his men received a distressed call that a gang of armed robbers were terrorising Igbudu Market/Old Welfare, and moved to the scene. He said on sighting the police, the hoodlums took to their heels, but the gallant officers went after them. “Somewhere around Old Welfare Road, the hoodlums went into a gun duel with the operatives, but could not withstand the superior firepower of the police. During the gun duel, five of the hoodlums sustained serious gunshot injuries, while two locally made cut-to-size single barrel guns, three rounds of expended cartridges, three rounds of live cartridges and one dagger were recovered from them. The injured suspects gave up the ghost while they were being taken to the hospital,” he stated. In the Asaba incident, Edafe stated that the command had detailed tactical teams to some areas in the capital city, following complaints from residents about activities of hoodlums who dispossess them of their belongings. He said on June 30, during a visibility patrol by the command Rapid Response  Squad (RRS), four suspicious men were sighted in an unregistered mini bus along Ezenei road. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Edafe stated that on sighting the police, the suspects zoomed off through Asaba-Benin Expressway, and headed towards Issele-Asagba, adding that the police gave them a hot chase. He said while trying to double-cross the suspects’ vehicle, they ran into the police van and abandoned their vehicle before fleeing into adjoining bush while firing at the policemen. The police spokesman said his men returned fire, and in the ensuing duel, “one of the suspects sustained gunshot injury, while others escaped with bullet wounds. One cut-to-size english double barrel, one locally made pistol, six expended cartridges, two live cartridges and a big iron cutter were recovered.  The injured suspect was taken to the Agbor General Hospital, where he died while receiving treatment. Effort is on top gear to arrest the other fleeing members of the gang.” Edafe added that both cases were still under investigation.