By Enyeribe Ejiogu Lead Pastor of Demonstration Ministries, Lagos, Pastor Emeka Onwuaka, has declared that Nigeria will be delivered and prised out of the stranglehold of the Pharaoh and his cohort holding the country Nigeria captive.  Onwuaka stated this while conveying the import of a prophecy concerning the country, which has been in grip of murderous marauding bandits and gunmen, who have engaged in incessant killings of men, women and children in communities across the country, leaving fields of blood, orphans and internally displaced people. Alluding to the script in the bible that says, “Shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captive delivered? But thus says the Lord, even the captives of the mighty shall be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be delivered: for I will contend with him that contends with thee, and I will save thy children,” the cleric said: “The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria has made the greater generality of Nigerians prey to the few terrible and rendered many lawful captives. My people are in self-inflicted bondage, but hear this God shall deliver this nation from the few terrible and take us out of the grip of the mighty. God said to me, write these words, I shall fight the battle myself against those that have contended against Nigeria. I will save the innocent children of Nigeria that have been subjected to all the suffering they never deserved. I will overrule what the enemy had put in place and clean up Nigeria as a man washes a plate.” Onwuaka said further: “A shift and deviation from the usual in Nigeria is coming. The Lord said that on that day when this shall come to pass, make the people to know that this is the finger of God.  “Nigerians, I’m not writing to tell us the next president of this great nation, but rather to let us know what shall come to pass in the coming months. The cries of God’s people in Nigeria has come unto their Maker as it came to Him in the land of Egypt after 400 years and He has come to deliver them. This is not going to be by any man, but God, in whose hands are the heart and breath of every creature, He shall turn their hearts, both the heathen and His people according to His will and purpose. That means God will cause the heathen and His people to speak with one voice. This shall be beyond human, ethnic or political comprehension.” He said that many will be happy and rejoice when the prophecy is fulfilled.