From Fred Ezeh, Abuja Supporters of the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, have moved a step higher in their quest to market their preferred candidate using all digital platforms for local and international consumers To this end, they have developed a mobile application to help them in distributing content, campaign messages and other things that strengthen the chances of their preferred candidate to emerge victorious in the forthcoming general elections. The supporters said the mobile app, “Peter Obi Nation” is an added digital advantage for the supporters, in addition to their massive presence and campaign on several other social media platforms with the slogan “OBI-DIENT”. The mobile application is already up and running on Google Play Store, with over 10,000 downloads so far on Google Play Store, as of Monday, July 11, with a 4.8-star rating and review of the mobile application. The developers, however, advised the subscribers to understand the App privacy & security practices with Google Play’s Data safety section before they install the app from Google Play. The developer also referred them to the app’s data safety section, adding that the developers use the data safety section to share information about how the app handles data. “This way, you can make more informed decisions about what apps you use,” the developer added. Som reviewers described the mobile application as a great concept that would help in the actualization of their dream and desire to make Peter Obi the next President of Nigeria. In the review section, Idowu Adeleke said, “this is a great initiative. But, I will suggest that the details of the Vice Presidential Candidate be included since it’s a joint ticket. Videos of their interviews should be uploaded.” Chukwuma Jerry said: “I love this spirit of patriotism that is coming to Nigeria now. We, the youths must bring back the energy of #Endsars to save Nigeria from coma.” Mc Holy said: “The task is for all of us. I am happy we are recording success in a max.” Amaka Okwuogori said: “Nigerian youths ain’t lazy. Good concept, pls update the app with portfolio of the Vice Presidential Candidate and labour party logo.”