Founder and Chairman of BUA Group, one of Africa’s largest foods, mining, manufacturing and infrastructure companies, Abdul Samad Rabiu, has been re-appointed as President of the France Nigeria Business Council by President Emmanuel Macron of France. This was announced at the July 2022 Meeting of the France Nigeria Business Council held in Paris recently. Addressing the Council after this reappointment,  Rabiu thanked members for their support while stressing it was a personal honour for him to be a part of the France Nigeria Business Council. The BUA Group boss who said it was a privilege for him to serve as the pioneer President of the Council inaugurated just over a year ago to be reappointed as its president. He also thanked President Macron for his support and for reappointing him and Jean Haas of Relais (France) as President of the Council and Head of Secretariat respectively. The France Nigeria Business Council brings together the top businesses in Nigeria and France with a goal of improving business relations between Nigeria and France while ensuring routine cooperation that brings about immense economic benefits for both countries.  French members of the Council include the Global Chief Executives of Total Energies, Dassault, Axens, Accor, CMA, amongst others. On the Nigerian side, Dr Mike Adenuga of Globacom & Conoil, Jim Ovia of Zenith Bank, Gilbert Chagoury of Chagoury Group, Aliko Dangote of Dangote Group, Tony Elumelu of UBA and Heirs Holdings and Tony Elumelu Foundation, Dr. Herbert Wigwe of Access Bank Group, Dr. Philip Mshelbila of NLNG and Senator Daisy Danjuma of Sapetro and May & Baker plc. Also Abdul Samad Rabiu of BUA Group & the Abdul Samad Rabiu Africa Initiative (ASR Africa) who is the current president.  Speaking further, Abdul Samad Rabiu praised the progress that has been made by the France Nigeria Business Council since its inauguration and the commitment of members – despite slow global recovery, in pushing forward with various partnerships. These include plans by some of Nigeria’s biggest banks to set up subsidiaries in France, and BUA’s partnership with Axens of France to build a 200,000bpd refinery in Akwa Ibom, Nigeria amongst other key projects by members.