From Sylvanus Viashima, Jalingo The National Directorate of Employment (NDE) has commenced the training of unemployed youths in waste recycling under the Public Works Scheme (PWS) in Taraba State. Director General of the agency Mallam Abubakar Fikpo disclosed this on Thursday at the Flag Off and Orientation ceremony for the Enviropreneuralship Development Programme for Participants of Public Works Scheme in Jalingo. Fikpo, who was represented by Alhaji Shehu Danjuma said that the initiative was to provide skills to unemployed youths in waste recycling as an aspect of achieving Waste to Wealth in Nigeria. The DG who said that the scheme was also aimed at providing a source of livelihood to unemployed youths through recycling of waste resources for present and future generations, noted that the orientation would improve the standard of living of most Nigerian youths as well as impact positively on climate change in their environments. Fikpo said that the scheme was designed to provide skills in various components of waste recycling to the youths and also empower them to be self-employed upon the completion of their three months training. He said that the scheme which commenced in 2019 in other states was designed to be implemented in three phases, with Taraba falling into third phase. He urged the participants to take advantage of the window to become self-reliant adding that such would do good to the individuals as well as Nigerian society. The Director General commended President Muhammadu Buhari for graciously adopting the initiative towards ensuring its full implementation towards job creation. In her remark, Hajia Jumai Umar, Head of the Public Works Scheme Department said that 30 participants in the scheme were drowned from all the 16 local government areas in the state. Umar who said the participants would be paid N10,000 monthly throughout the duration of the training disclosed that they would be deployed to various organisations to learn skills in waste recycling and management and advised them to be diligent as some organisations are poised to retain good ones upon the completion of their training.