This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Kemi Yesufu, Abuja Foreign Affairs Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama has expressed doubts on the ability of the United States Ambassador to Nigeria, James Entwistle, to substantiate his allegation that Nigerian lawmakers were involved in sexual misconduct in the U.S. The minister, who appeared before the Joint House Committetee probing the alleged sexual misconduct levelled against three House of Reps members, said Entwistle had confirmed to him that the victims of the alleged assaults had declined to testify as requested by the House of Representatives Committee on Ethics, which commenced inquiries into the matter last week. Mr. Entwistle, in a petition to House Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, on June 9, said Mohammed Galolo, Samuel Ikon and Mark Gbillah indulged in sexual misbehaviour at a hotel in the U.S. when the three lawmakers traveled there for a leadership programme. But, Mr. Onyeama, who appeared before the panel after two failed attempts to get him to testify described the sexual misconduct allegations as ambiguous and spurious. “Mr. Entwistle confirmed that the allegations were made and he told me that the hotel housekeeper has refused to testify in respect of the matter. The allegations are ambiguous. He did not present any evidence nor did he indicate that they have any corroborative evidence,” Mr. Onyeama said. Mr. Entwistle had twice rejected invitation from the committee for him to come and substantiate his allegations. The U.S. Embassy in Abuja also declined to comment, saying they do not comment on “private diplomatic correspondents.” The Chairman of House Committee on Ethics and Privileges, Nicholas Ossai (PDP-Delta) said the committee did not invite the management of the hotel where the alleged misconduct occurred since the Ambassador, who made the allegation has documentary evidence against the three lawmakers. The lawmakers have vehemently denied the allegations and called for a thorough investigation. While testifying on Wedenesday, the three lawmakers accused the U.S. Ambassador of plotting to embarrass the Nigerian parliament. The incident allegedly occurred during the International Visitor Leadership Programme in Cleveland, Ohio, U.S. held between April 7 and April 13, attended by 10 members of the lower chamber. On June 16, Mr. Dogara commissioned the Ethics, Privileges and Foreign Affairs Committee to probe the “embarrassing” development. Mr. Ossai, chairman of the Committee said yesterday that the body had concluded its public findings and would hold regular sittings to put together a report that would be presented to the leadership of the House.