Two years down the line, past winners of the Dangote Cement consumer promo have commended the management for the positive economic impact of the promo on their lives. Just as the company is set to roll out the season three of its promo, some of the winners who spoke on the impact of the cars and millions of Naira won during the promo described the promo as a big relief and a palliative sort of coming during the excruciating impact of the Covid-19 when the whole world was shut down. It would be recalled that 450 consumers had emerged either as a millionaire or car owners even as others won hundreds of tricycles during the season one and two of the consumer promo. The star winners across Nigeria who were presented with brand new saloon cars or one million naira as prizes, commended the cement manufacturing giant and its Chairman, Aliko Dangote for transforming their lives. Some of the excited winners, who were contacted by telephone, recalled how they initially thought it was a dream but were later presented with their prizes in the full glare f the public. They said their winnings had enhanced their life and living and hailed the sincerity of Dangote Cement in handing over the cars to them and urged Nigerians to participate in the next promo coming up in 2022. A winner, Mr. Clement James of Marble Construction, Kaduna State who won a car during the last Dangote Cement promo said that prize has enhanced the profitability of his business. According to him, the car has assisted the company in marketing Dangote Cement within and outside Kaduna. “We have been using the car to meet clients and customers’ needs in and around the state. This has further increased our customer base and boost our profitability,” he stated. He pointed out that the car gift has further shown Dangote’s interest in empowering its product consumers and customers.  “The truth is that the car gift has made people to understand that Dangote is not only interested in making profits, but also highly interested in impacting lives of consumers of its products. Before now, we only hear of how much Dangote contributes to empowerment and have not experienced it. With the Dangote Cement promo, we were able to actually feel the impact directly. It now boosts the confidence of consumers on the company’s products.” Another, Emmanuel Boye, the Managing Director of Awuley Investment Limited, Abuja said that the Dangote Cement’s branded car this company won has become a source of advertisement for Dangote Cement products as people are now becoming more aware of the products. “The prize has further increase customers’ behavior in a positive way. The truth is that many people in our locality now have more confidence in us that we are selling high quality cement. The branded car has made the customer to believe that we are not selling counterfeit re-bagged  product because they have seen something to confirm that we are getting the product directly from the company’s factory. So, our sales volume has greatly improved in the past two years.” Apart from the car prize, some other consumers especially those a million naira during the promo said they used the cash to expand their businesses. Mr. Nsikan Emmanue from Calabar, who was one of the One million prize winners said: “The Dangote Cement Sales Promotion was a technique that attracted consumers to purchase more of Dangote Cement and they have continued to patronize the product.  Dangote is the only cement company in Nigeria that produces quality cement at affordable price. For Mr. Edit Udeme of Delta State who also won one million naira said he used part of the money to expand his business and another part to purchase a motorcycle for customer contact and product distribution.  He said that the motorcycle has enhanced his mobility and enabled him to reach out to more consumer of Dangote Cement. “I want to thank Dangote Cement for impacting the lives of consumers through the cement promo.  It will be good to see more of such promos in the future,” he said. Speaking on the promos, Group Chief, Branding and Communication, Dangote Industries Ltd, Mr. Anthony Chiejina explained that the company’s decision to launch the promos for the consumer was in tandem with the vision and mission of the company which is basically to tough the lives of the people by providing their basic needs. The timing of the promo, two  years ago, according to him was very strategic as the who world was feeling the pangs of the covid and the management thought it was good to come to the aid of its loyal customers by rewarding them via the promo. Said he: “when Dangote Cement came out with  Bag of Goodies Season 2 themed Spell Dangote and Win a Million Naira promo in 2020, it had one thing in mind, and that is to give back to the consumers of the product and impact as many lives as possible. “Two years after the promo, the company can confidently attest to the fact that it has been able to contribute positively to the lives and business of its consumers. The mega promo, which produced hundreds of winners across the country assisted in mitigating the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on consumers and dealers of Dangote Cement who were battling with low sales then due to the restrictions on economic activities then.”