By Emma Njoku One of the terror suspects who escaped from the Medium Security Correctional Centre, Kuje, following last Tuesday’s attack on the facility by insurgents in Abuja, have been rearrested by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). The Director, Media and Advocacy (NDLEA), Mr. Femi Babafemi, who made the disclosure in a statement, said the fleeing terror suspect, Suleiman Sidi, was arrested in the early hours of yesterday, at Area 1 Motor Park, in the Federal Capital Territory, while attempting to board a commercial vehicle to Maiduguri, Borno state. Sidi was said to be in possession of three wraps of cannabis sativa when he was arrested. “During preliminary interview, the wanted terror suspect confirmed he was remanded at the Kuje Correctional Centre for terrorism and robbery charges, adding that he was, indeed, one of the inmates who escaped from the facility last Tuesday, Babafemi stated. While commending the officers and men of the FCT Command of the agency for the arrest and their vigilance, Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (retd), directed that the wanted suspect be immediately handed over to the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS). Also, another inmate who escaped during last Tuesday’s jailbreak was arrested by the police in Minna, the Niger state capital last weekend. The state Police Public Relation’s Officer (PPRO), DSP Wasiu Abiodun, in a statement, yesterday, said that a patrol team on surveillance between the General Hospital, Suleja and Bakassi, arrested the fleeing inmate on Saturday at about 8:30pm. He explained that based on credible intelligence, the police patrol team stormed an identified compound and arrested one Kazeem Murtala, aged 54 years. When interrogated, the inmate confessed that he escaped from Kuje Custodial Centre during the attack, adding that he had been in custody for two years for an offence he committed. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, Niger Command, Mr Monday Bala Kuryas, has commended the efforts of the patrol team. The statement quoted Kuryas as directing that the inmate be handed back to the custodial centre, which has been complied with. The command urged residents to continue to support with reliable information that could aid in apprehending other suspected criminals and to combat crime and criminality in the state. The CP equally appreciated members of the public for giving useful intelligence to the police which facilitated the quick arrest of the fleeing fugitive.