By Merit Ibe     The Lagos State government has bestowed an award of recognition on Mojec International Limited for its efforts in supporting education in the state.  The award was presented at the 2022 Equity Quality Ubiquity Access Learning (EQUAL) Summit put together by the Lagos State Ministry of Education in collaboration with the Office of Sustainable Development Goals and Investment (SDGI). According to the Permanent Secretary, Office of SDGI, Abosede George, Mojec earned the award through its valuable contributions to education in the state, which is in tandem with one of the critical components of the THEMES agenda of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration. The award was given in recognition of Mojec’s efforts at employing 250 Lagos State Government Technical College graduates last year and 200 this year. In her address, George said the summit, “presents a veritable platform to showcase the strides of the state’s Ministry of Education in improving the education system and opening up opportunities for public-private partnership interventions and mutually beneficial investments across the education value chain in the state. “One of the primary essence of governance in a democratic society is to create an environment where common values of literacy are instilled. Ambitions for this effort are essentially captured in the SDGs 4 which aims to ‘ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. In her acceptance speech after receiving the award on behalf Mojec, Chairman/CEO, Mrs Mojisola Abdul described the recognition as a testament to the company’s stand on excellence and its belief that good education is the bedrock of development of any society. “For us as a company, we believe that children are the future of a country so we need to give them the best of education. I remember that my mother used to say that even if it’s only one clothe that was left for her, her children must go to school and that’s the legacy I built on. That’s why Mojec deems it fit to give back to the society because the government cannot do it all. This is part of our corporate citizenship duties, for which we are proud. We thank the government of Lagos State for the recognition.” Assuring that the company would not rest on its oars, she pointed out that “As a Meter producing company, we are the leader in the industry, not only in Nigeria but also in the whole of Africa. So being the first means we must continue to do more, we must not relent.” Other dignitaries who graced the event include, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, the Commissioner for Education, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Mr. Abayomi Abolaji and others.