By Steve Agbota  Former national legal adviser, Jacob Mark, has said Governor Wike has not shut his doors against the party as it was being insinuated.  Mark, who spoke on a national television programme monitored in Lagos, yesterday, dismissed rumours that Wike and his supporters were not interested in reconciliation or working with the party ahead of the 2023 poll. “I’m not too sure it is correct for anybody to assume that he has shut his doors against the PDP, the party he has vowed to support to victory; the party he has reassured after returning from his trip…”   However, he said there was need to do a lot to reunite the PDP to unseat the ruling APC. “I think every other person in the party should take advantage of that and people should climb down from their high horses, discard winners take it all away approach and there must be no room for political arrogance where you disregard people who have the feelings of being ignored.  “You cannot at this stage be facing a big election we are talking about and ignore the people. I have seen the likes of governors who are together with Wike. You will be committing political suicide if you elect to ignore some people. “I have listened to former governors (David) Jang, (Ayo) Fayose and I have listened to the voice of (Governor Seyi) Makinde, I heard from (Governor Samuel) Ortom, these are stakeholders of the party and when you are going into a general election where you want to unseat a ruling party, you will be politically incorrect to ignore such people.”  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. According to him, the party needs a meeting point where all aggrieved persons should be talked to, discussed with and be duly respected before moving forward. “I’m happy the chairman of the BoT, Walid Jibrin, made it clear that he’s going to ensure that such a meeting takes place either in Abuja or Port Harcourt. The discussion is urgently needed by all members of the party who are serious about winning election in 2023,” he stated. He said there was no way the election can be won if the house is not brought together, saying the party cannot go into any election with a scattered house.