From Tony John, Port Harcourt Governor Nyesom Wike has said Rivers State Government would award contract for two additional flyovers to reduce traffic congestion in Port Harcourt and its environs. He disclosed that the two flyovers, which would be the 11th and 12th to be awarded by his administration since 2019, would be located at Rumuokuta and NTA-Choba Road in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area and completed within the next 10 months. Governor Wike stated this after inspecting ongoing construction work at the Dr. Peter Odili Cancer and Cardiovascular Disease Diagnostic and Treatment Centre, the Ogbum-nu-Abali sandfill, Rumueprikom, Orochiri-Worukwo, Nkpolu-Oroworukwo flyovers in Port Harcourt, yesterday. He said his administration’s huge investment in infrastructure in the past seven years has undeniably laid solid foundation for sustainable growth of Rivers State. Wike said the sterling performance of his administration will indisputably ensure the electoral victory of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidates for the office of the governor, Senate, House of Representatives and state Assembly in the 2023 general election. “We are going to award 11th  and 12th  flyovers any moment from now. I have made the promise before and I am not going to go back. It will be record breaking in the history of this country that a state government was able to embark on 12 flyovers, not in eight years. You’ll remember these flyovers started in 2019, my second tenure. It is not that we started in 2015. For you to do 12 flyovers in four years, I don’t see who has broken that kind of record. It is commitment. This is the campaign for us. This is the campaign for those who are running for Senate, campaign for those who are running for House of Representatives, campaign for those who are running for House of Assembly, campaign for those who are running for governor. We have shown to the world that we can do it and we have done it. “And I do know my successor will take from what we have done because he is part of what is going on in government. He knows everything. He will not want to bring down the standard. The standard we have set in this state, it will be difficult for anybody to bring it down. For me, I am very happy,” he said. Governor Wike revealed that state government will, through an irrevocable standing order, fund the two additional flyovers from its internally generated revenue.