From Rose Ejembi, Makurdi A Catholic priest serving in Benue state, Rev. Fr. Peter Amodu, has been reportedly kidnapped by yet to be identified gunmen. Fr Amodu who hails from Agbaha Otukpa in Ogbadibo Local Government Area of Benue State was said to have been kidnapped on Wednesday, 6th of July, 2022, along Okwungaga-Otukpo highway. Sources from the area told newsmen by telephone that nothing had yet been heard from him or his abductors concerning his whereabout almost 24 hours after his abduction. A statement signed by the Diocesan Chancellor, Catholic Diocese of Otukpo, Rev. Fr. Joseph Aboyi Itodo, confirmedthe incident saying it happened at about 5pm on Wednesday while the priest was going to perform his sacred duty. The statement which was sighted by our correspondent on Thursday, urged all Catholic faithfuls to pray for the safe release of the abducted priest. The letter which was addressed to all priests, religious and lay faithful read in part, “We write to notify you of the kidnap of Rev. Fr. Peter Amodu, a priest of the Holy Ghost Congregation who is working in the Catholic Diocese of Otukpo as Parish Priest of Holy Ghost Parish, Eke-Olengbeche. “The sad incident occurred 6th July, 2022 at about 5.00pm along Otukpo – Ugbokolo Road, Benue State, while he was on his way to celebrate the Holy Mass at Okwungaga-Ughbokolo. “The Local Ordinary, Most Rev. Michael Ekwoyi Apochi, has called on all Christ’s Faithful in the Catholic Diocese of Otukpo and beyond to earnestly pray for his quick and safe release as we intensify efforts to ensure his release. “We commend our brother and all those in the kidnappers’ den to the powerful intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary for their speedy and safe release from the hands of their abductors,” the statement concluded. Contacted, the Benue State Police Command, in a terse message through its Police Public Relations Officer PPRO SP Catherine Anene confirmed the abduction to the Catholic Priest. “Kidnap of a Rv. Father at Otukpo- Okwungaga road is confirmed and investigation is ongoing,” Anene said.