By Chukwudi Nweje Prominent sociopolitical and cultural organisations, including pan Yoruba group, Afenifere; Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide; the Middle Belt Forum (MBF), and Arewa Youths Consultative Forum (AYCF), have faulted the Federal Government’s reported plan to place a nationwide ban on commercial motorcycles, popularly called Okada across the country Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, who briefed the press alongside his Interior and Police Affairs counterparts, Rauf Aregbesola and Mohammed Dingyadi, respectively, had after the National Security Council meeting presided by President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday, said the proposed ban on commercial motorcycle was part of efforts to check terrorism in the country. However, the Afenifere, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, MBF and AYCF have noted that the Federal Government’s proposal was akin to chasing shadows while leaving the substance unattended. They accused the Federal Government of insincerity in the war against terror, and charged the government to direct the security agencies to go after the terrorists in their camps rather than place a blanket ban on motorcycle transportation, which they noted would further aggravate insecurity in the country. According to them, the large army of unemployed youths who currently make a leaving from riding motorcycles will provide the terrorists a pool to recruit from. The National Publicity Secretary of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Chief Chidozie Alex Ogbonnia noted that terrorism persists because of the contradictions in the Federal Government’s approach. Ogbonnia added that motorcycle ban would worsen insecurity because the large number of youths who depend on daily earnings riding motorcycles will be jobless. National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, Jare Ajayi, said the government is not serious about terrorism fight. He described the proposed ban as another evidence that deep or scientific thinking does not characterise how decisions are arrived at in the corridors of power, and added that commercial motorcycles had been in operation long before the advent of terrorism in the country. Afenifere further indicted the Minister of Interior, Aregbesola of failing to act on credible intelligence report that Kuje Correctional Centre was to be attacked. President of MBF, Dr Pogu Bitrus, said: “A blanket ban on motorcycles will not solve the problem. The Federal Government knows the locations of terrorists’ camps, so why not root them from those camps? However a ban could be necessary in places that are known to be notorious for terrorists operating on motorcycles. Motorcycles and tricycles are used to transport people and goods in rural areas, so it is better for the Federal Government to root out the terrorists from their camps, which they already know.” President of AYCF, Yerima Shettima argued that a blanket ban on motorcycles nationwide will be counter productive considering the number of youths earning honest leaving from motorcycle transportation. He advised the government to address the problems of insecurity from region to region based on peculiarities.