From Felix Ikem, Nsukka The Nigeria Institute of Soil Science (NISS), South East Zone, has trained farmers and extension agents in the zone on the use of a mobile app for data collection and services aimed at achieving food security in Nigeria. Prof Charles Asadu, the South East NISS Zonal Coordinator, while flagging off the training workshop on Thursday in Nsukka, said that the mobile application will be known as NISSAGRO Mobile Application and is available for download on Google Play App Store. He said that the app will help and guide farmers, extension agents and other stakeholders in the soil and agricultural industry on the best ways to improve soil and food production. “The development of the app by the Nigeria Institute of soil science is in accordance with the mandate of the institute in regulating the profession of soil science in Nigeria, the ultimate purpose of which is to promote sustainable agricultural production systems that will not degrade the soil while ensuring high and sustainable food production to stem food insecurity staring at the faces of Nigerians today. “NISS primary purpose of the app is to promote Registered Soil Scientists’ service and engage farmers, extension workers, researchers, Agro-dealers and other stakeholders on good agricultural practices, fertilizer recommendations and technology needed for improving soil and food production in each locality in Nigeria. “Any person or group who is interested in the information/data needed to improve our soils, increased and sustainable agricultural production will benefit from the Mobile App,” he said. The participants who are state representatives of farmers and extension agents from the five states in the South East Zone were trained on how to download, install and operate the NISSAGRO Mobile Application on their Android phones, as well as how to share and source information from the app. Mr Augustine Agbakoba, the resource person from NISS Head Quarters Abuja, said that the application was created to help farmers have adequate knowledge of soil and its functions by providing knowledge, service and tools that will enhance productivity. According to him, “the app is designed in such a way that you can get information about crops in Nigeria, its efficiency and deficiency. “The app can help farmers and extension agents to discuss issues and challenges and seek solutions from the App. “Farmers can check farm inventories and weather conditions that will help them in making farming decisions and have knowledge, service and tools that will improve their production without harming the soil,” he said. Earlier, Prof Charles Igwe, the Vice Chancellor of the University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN), commanded the organisers of the workshop for training members as well as provide farmers with knowledge, service and tools that will help them improve productivity. Igwe who was former Dean of Faculty of Agriculture UNN expressed happiness that NISS has mandated itself in ensuring that farmers, extension workers and other stakeholders in soil science and agriculture were equipped with modern technology in helping farmers to boost agriculture. “I commend Prof Adadu, the NISS coordinator in South East who in spite of the ongoing nationwide strike in public universities has continued to train and retrain farmers and extension workers on how to ensure adequate productivity in agriculture,” he said. One of the participants, Prof Damian Azawaram, from Abia State, in an interview with Daily Sun, commended NISS for organizing the training workshop for farmers and extension agents in South East. “With this mobile application, farmers and extension agents are now well-positioned to source and access information using modern technology at our different locations. “The app and training is a big and commendable achievement in NISS’s quest to ensure food security in the country, we are happy that they are living up to expectations as a regulatory body, and we are optimistic that the app will provide us with the much-needed information on best soil management and good agricultural practice,” he said. Daily Sun reports that NISS is an agency under the federal ministry of agriculture and rural development, with the mandate of regulating the profession of soil science in Nigeria as well as providing a scientific basis for enhancing and sustaining productivity of soil resources with minimal environmental degradation, especially with regards to food production in the country.