From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja House of Representatives Minority caucus has said that the victory of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, in Osun State, Ademola Adeleke, is a pointer to the defeat that awaits the All Progressives Congress ( APC) in the 2023 polls. The caucus, in a congratulatory message to Adeleke, by the minority leader, Ndudi Elumelu, said PDP victory in Osun was well deserved, as it reinforces the popularity of the governor-elect and opposition party in the South West geo-political zone. The opposition lawmakers, while congratulating the people of Osun State for their courage, resilience and patriotism in this election, lauded the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and other democratic institutions for being on the side of the people. “Your overwhelming defeat of a sitting governor underscores the well-founded confidence and trust the people of Osun State repose in you as the leader with the desired capacity, integrity, humility, love for the people and the political will to lead their state in the right direction. “Also, this victory and recovery of the mandate that was stolen from you by the APC in 2018 further reinforces your popularity and that of the PDP not only in Osun State, but also in the South West geo-political zone and the nation as a whole. “The indubitable triumph of the PDP over the APC in the Osun governorship election signposts the crushing defeat that awaits the APC in the 2023 Presidential election, with the soaring popularity of our Presidential Candidate, His Excellency, Atiku Abubakar GCON (Wazirin Adamawa) and his running mate, His Excellency, Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa. “With the retrieval of our mandate in Osun State, I urge you Mr. Governor-Elect to use your immense goodwill and vision to further unite the people and commence preparations for a transparent, accountable and development-oriented government that will give the people the breath of fresh air that has eluded them under the abysmal APC administration in the State for the past four years,” the caucus stated.