Nigeria athletes competing at World Athletics Championships in Oregon, US have not lowered their guards despite narrowly missing podium appearance in the 4×400m mix-relays, women hammer and men’s100m events. This assurance was made by member Athletics Federation of Nigeria and AFN 2nd Vice President Rosa Collins during an interview. Collins in her analysis said Nigeria athletes are strong and determined to do well at the World Athletics Championships in Oregon, despite the late arrival of some athletes from Nigeria owing to late departure and visa associated hiccups. “Our athletes are good to go, even when some of them arrived late with a few hours to their events, they were able to make it to the finals. I’m talking about the 4×400m mix-relay team. They competed well and if they had arrived here early enough, the relay team would not have placed 6th position in the finals.” On her evaluation of expected performance of Athletes, the former National Triple Champion said, “The Athletes have big dreams and are ready to perform and win laurels for Nigeria” Two male sprinters would be competing today in the men’s 100m semi-finals and hopefully, they would berth in the finals. Enekwechi Chukwuebuka in short put is now in the finals, we pray he wins and command podium appearance. To qualify for the finals in World Athletics Championships is not an easy achievement, Collins said. On the health of athletes in camp, Collins said, “There is no problem; athletes are healthy and good to go,” She also informed that the NIKE Kits supplied to the team have issues with sizes and not entirely complete, adding that the Nigerian federation should intensify effort in engaging a credible kits company for Nigeria athletes as the current arrangement falls short of a complete deal. “Although, NIKE gave AFN free kits to participate at the World Championships and the federation is grateful, however, it’s also  important that AFN should locate, negotiate and agree on what it wants from a kits Company, there are lots of them in the US, She said. Competition continues today in the 100m men’s semi-finals and finals.