From Ighomuaye Lucky, Benin Former governorship candidate of African Democratic Congress in the Edo State 2020 governorship election, Mabel Oboh who later decamped to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday said the passion to serve Nigerians has brought her back to ADC, her former party. She disclosed this in a statement entitled “I have returned home to (ADC)”, made available to reporters in Benin City. Oboh said going back to the party she has once nurtured, is an home coming for her as it aligns with her principle of willing to ensure that development and the dividend of democracy is spread to the nook and cranny of the country. “I have returned home to (ADC)—It took some time. But I have returned to African Democratic Congress (ADC), where I have called my political home for several years. ” On July 22, 2022, I formally left the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). It took some time to reminisce on the basic principles of ADC, which align with my ideals of what politics should be. “All I have always wanted to do is get a platform to satisfy my hunger and passion, both of which are built around service to the underprivileged and vulnerable, reach fellow everyday women and the youth with solutions to their challenges and give them a voice. “As a grassroots political party,  ADC had the philosophy and policies that align with these aspirations. ” However, after the 2020 Edo State governorship election in which I was privileged to fly the party’s flag, I sought to explore another platform to pursue my passion for service. “However, in the short period I have been away, it became obvious that the ADC kit is home to me and my passion. “Without institutions and individuals that believe in the people and are ready to serve, democracy becomes a term, concept or study in academic settings. “I have returned home to ADC, the party that has always given room to different ideas and a chance for everyone to cross-fertilize goals. ” This is the kind of intercourse that produces leaders and pushers of people-oriented practical service”, she explained in details. Oboh said that in ADC, she will be handling the office of Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) where she would be to relate with the electorate. “At ADC, I will be handling the office of Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) ”In politics and nation-building diversity and inclusion are ‘keynotes’ especially, in a nation like ours that is naturally diversified. “The objectives of this office include, but are not limited to, building relationships among the various strata that make up the party; driving the party’s philosophy and ideals across the nation with a focus on the important needs of the people, that usually affect the ignored Nigerians. “Furthermore, engaging frequently with the electorate and building a sustained interface between members across the country with the goal of an all-inclusive nation will also be the objective of my new office at ADC. “I thank you gentlemen and ladies of the press for your deliberate attention to my political career, my future projects with my political party (ADC)  and my desire to give a voice to those that need it the most”, she said.