Stakeholders of Ezeagu Local Government Area, under the umbrella of Ezeagu Union, have expressed gratitude to Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for the exceptional wisdom and political sagacity he exhibited in ensuring a peaceful and successful conduct of the primary elections of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the council area and state. The Ezeagu leaders said they were pleased with the outcome of the party primaries which saw the emergence of their illustrious sons, Dr. Festus Uzor and  Chima Obieze as flagbearers of the PDP for Udi/Ezeagu Federal Constituency and Ezeagu Constituency respectively, in the 2023 general elections.  They also appreciated Ugwuanyi for entrenching peace and good governance in Enugu State in spite of the numerous challenges confronting the country since he assumed office. Speaking when members of Ezeagu Union paid a thank-you visit to Ugwuanyi at Government House, Enugu, Chairman of the group, Dennis Onyebuchi, told the governor: “We want to thank you for all your efforts to make us to be living in peace, especially the one you have done recently around the PDP where you are the South East leader and leader in the state.”  The Ezeagu Union Chairman, who gave a historic background of the union and its ideology, asked the governor to “take our thank you very seriously.” Also, Prof. Chike Anibeze, described Gov. Ugwuanyi as “a man with pragmatic eyes of picking up excellence”, saying: “We are here in full and everybody who is supposed to be here is here. We are here on our own volition. We made up our minds to be here. We came because we want you to understand the unity that is embedded in us. We have gone through the party primaries. The people that emerged, emerged, and at the end of the day we are still one.” Also in her speech, Prof. Joy Ezeilo described Gov. Ugwuanyi as “a good man presiding over Enugu State, who has built bridges and has enormous respect across Nigeria.” In their separate speeches, Ozo Ferdinand Anikwe, former Chairman of Ezeagu LGA, Emeka Ozoagu and the Royal Fathers, spoke in the same direction, appreciating Governor Ugwuanyi for his special interest in their council area, reassuring the governor that they would  ever remain grateful to him.