From Geoffrey Anyanwu and Jude Chinedu, Enugu The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) governorship candidate in Enugu State, Mr. Frank Nweke Jnr., yesterday, vowed to respect public funds and property if elected governor of the state. Nweke who spoke in Enugu while unveiling his deputy governorship candidate, Dr. Edith Ugwuanyi, said the grabbing of public funds and property by elected officials was the reason for bad governance in the state. The former Minister of Information and National Orientation recalled the great achievements of the Premier of the former Eastern Nigeria, Michael Okpara and those of former Governor of old Anambra State, Jim Nwobodo in four years, stressing that they were able to achieve because they respected public funds and used them for the people. “What happened to Okpara? What was the philosophy? Why did people listen to him? Why did he succeed? Their economic philosophy was standing on the concept of onyeaghala nwanneya (concept of shared prosperity), that you move together with the people. But today in our state, we have a situation where almost two thirds of our people will go to bed hungry two to three times a week. This rain that is falling now, there are people without shelter, we can provide sustainable housing, we can do it, all you have to do is to keep your hands, your mouth and eyes out of public funds. Stop taking public money, any money that doesn’t belong to you leave it alone it is owned by the people. “Land belongs to all, is not your private property, don’t take things that do not belong to you. Honour the people, give it to them, and use it for them. That is what you must do as a governor and that is what we are going to do as Governor and Deputy Governor of this state.” Nweke described his running mate, Ugwuanyi as a distinguished professional of repute with a track record of impact in Enugu and Diaspora, a grassroots mobilizer, an entrepreneur and women advocate; a well rounded and exemplary leader. “I was looking for a woman of competence, a woman of character, and because of that, she will be the most active deputy governor in Nigeria.” APGA gubernatorial candidate lamented that, “Enugu State is not working. The water crisis was not as bad as it is today. Everywhere you turn in the state, it has been taken over by filth. The level of insecurity in the state has reached its all-time high, all because of bad governance. Today, not only has the government destroyed the legacy of Okpara, they have not created one, one good legacy.” Ugwuanyi in her acceptance speech, thanked Nweke Jnr.  for nominating her, assuring that she would play a major part in “building the Enugu of our dreams,” adding that “it is inspiring to have a party that is driven by gender inclusion, people-oriented, and performance-driven.”