Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has filed a lawsuit against the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for “failing to prosecute those suspected of vote-buying and electoral bribery during the recently concluded Ekiti State governorship election.”A group, Catalyst For Global Peace and Justice Initiative (CPJ), has called on Nigerians to vote out politicians who don’t have the interest of the country at heart with their permanent voters’ cards in the 2023 elections. Convener of the group, Abraham Aiyedogbon, who expressed grief over the unprecedented pains of Nigerians, said it was time Nigerians made wise decision not regarding any form of sentiment as Nigerians go to the poll in 2023. According to him, with the hardship in the country, Nigerians should not allow mundane gratifications from politicians to make them lose focus on the ultimate goal of voting a competent candidate. “The Nigerian populace, for so long, is being subjected and being severely traumatised with all forms of deprivation of basic necessities in life, such as food, water, shelter, security, electricity, health care, education, and every form of basic infrastructure which are taken for granted in any modern society. “We dare not forget but recall with nostalgia, the fraudulent package of a phantom hope that promised us a glorious change in 2014 and 2015. The convener maintained that Nigerians were fooled prior 2015 general election, noting that the same set of people who packaged, presented and promoted, with so much jamboree, the incumbent administration, are the ones, who, without any sense of shame, remorse or repentance, are now stooping below the level of every basic norm, morality and decency, to promote a reincarnated and rebranded caricature of their abysmal failure before using in what they dare call continuity. “A closer scrutiny of the health, the credentials, public behaviour and the insensitivity, hypocrisy and arrogance of what is now known as ‘same faith presidential ticket’ of the ruling party will convince you without any iota or shadow of doubt that we are going from bad to worse,” Aiyedogbon, who is the founder of Realm of Glory Church, Lagos, affirmed that the unprecedented state and level of insecurity pervading every region and segment of the society, due to the insincerity and the seeming cluelessness and ruthlessness of Nigeria’s present rulers. The cleric posited that most people are unaware that the country has been permanently under lock down, which in reality was even worse than what was necessitated at the peak of COVID-19 pandemic. “No thanks to the operations of bandits, herdsmen, terrorists, Boko Haram, ISWAP, unknown gunmen, unknown soldiers, including the now newly unveiled unknown bishops with their unknown churches and dioceses. “People can no longer travel by road, by rail, and even by air with the recent suspension of the operations of Dana airlines and the self imposed grounding of one of the airlines in the country due to the unfriendly environment. “These have literally turned air travellers to refugees as they slumber like people in coma at the departure lounges of our various airports. “Worse still is the current threat to ban commercial motor bikes (popularly known as ‘okada’) nation-wide, and that was after the pump price of PMS has been clandestinely increased. “With less and less commuting by road, by rail and travelling by air and with the proposed banning of ‘okada?’, what we have is a perfect recipe for complete or total lockdown.”