From Ajiri Daniels, Abuja Amidst pomp and pageantry, the 2000 Old Students of Federal Government College Ikom, Cross River State have reunited after 22 years with the goal of strengthening the bond between the group and giving back to their alma mater. The Old Students who came from different parts of the country while some others in the diaspora converged at the prestigious Grand Cubana Hotels in Abuja, and expressed gratitude to God for sparing their lives to meet again after over two decades of parting. Established in 1989 to be among the about 101 unity colleges in Nigeria, Federal Government College Ikom, Cross River State has produced thousands of students who have made indelible marks in different fields of endeavour in Nigeria and abroad. Speaking on the sidelines of the event, the Leader of the Set, Dr. Robert Egot, said the reunion provided the opportunity to come together and reflect about their time in the school, appreciating the quality of education they got and the impact it has made in their individual careers. “Today is our 20th Anniversary and we are celebrating being together all these years after Secondary School. This reunion affords us the opportunity to refresh our memories, our experiences, see ourselves again and also strengthen our connections. “The reunion happens every five years and we have members settled across zones like Port Harcourt, Uyo, Calabar, Lagos, Abuja and Ikom where the school is domicile. The members of these zones and those in the diaspora are the people who have converged here today for this reunion,” Egot explained. Local Organising Committee Chairman of the reunion and member of the set, Mr. Kingsley Atubi said the reunion gave former classmates the opportunity to reconnect and reminisce about the good old days: “It will reinforce our common bonds, renew our friendship, and help us to appreciate our different but parallel journeys thus far,” he said. Atubi, a realtor and construction expert based in Abuja, also noted that the reunion featured Award sessions where distinguished members of the set were recognised for their achievements and service in various fields. He explained that the Awards were split into Merit and Service categories and winners emerged through a transparent process of voting. “The winners for the Merit Awards were voted for via Google links so it is a very transparent process. Other than the Merit Awards we also have the Service Awards based on one’s service and we honour our members that have served the class over the years,” he said. In a goodwill message, the Principal of the set, Mr. J.A. Ebam who joined virtually via Zoom, appreciated the 2000 Set of the school for deeming it fit to reunite after many years, urging them to be good ambassadors in their various endeavours and the society at large. The glamourous reunion which had dignitaries and diaspora members in attendance featured Awards, dance, cake cutting, and goodwill messages while the set gave a toast to an impactful Old Students efforts.