By Chinelo Obogo and Fred Ezeh, Abuja The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) has denied reports that its General Overseer, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, met with the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu and endorsed his candidacy. In a disclaimer, the Church authority said Pastor Adeboye and the RCCG have not and would not endorse any candidate for the 2023 general elections and that the General Overseer is under the authority of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) and as such would not speak on behalf of Christians on issues regarding policies. “It has come to our notice that some news outlets are reporting that a meeting between the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God Worldwide and the former Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Bola Ahmed Tinubu was held a few days back at the Redemption Camp where our esteemed father in the Lord was said to have supported the preferred candidature of the Party the former governor is a member of. “This is to inform the general public that Pastor Adeboye is under the authority of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) and as such will not speak on behalf of Christians on issues regarding policies. “Pastor Adeboye and the RCCG have not and will not endorse any candidate for the 2023 general elections in Nigeria. The news reported by Daily Post is false. Daily Post and other news outlets should desist from spreading false information about Pastor Adeboye and the RCCG as it defeats the code of ethics of journalism and the full weight of the law will be employed if such happens in the future,” the disclaimer read. CAN had at the weekend directed all churches in Nigeria to advise their members not to vote any presidential candidates with links to hard drugs, Boko Haram or any violent religious groups. Among the qualities the religious body said Christians should look out for in a candidate are honesty, truthfulness, respect for the rule of law, respect for religious and ethnic diversity, compassionate, disciplined and credible. The body said the candidate must not be a member of any cult, must not have any involvement with drugs, witchcraft, Boko Haram or any violent religious group. The candidate is required to have performed excellently in previous positions, must have good education sufficient to manage a complex society, effective management skills of human and natural resources. Meanwhile, Christian youths under the umbrella of the Youth Wing of Christian Association of Nigeria (YOUWICAN) have joined lots of other Nigerians in condemning the decision of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to field candidates from same religion, Muslim-Muslim or Christian-Christian, for the 2023 presidential election. The youths held a peaceful protest in Abuja, yesterday, to herald the commencement of mobilisation against the APC and any other political party that might had fielded candidates from same religion, Muslim-Muslim or Christian-Christian, for the forthcoming presidential election. The North Central Chairman of YOWICAN, Owoyemi Alfred Olushola, told journalists at a press conference in Abuja, that anyone or political party promoting same-faith ticket does not mean well for Nigeria and should be stopped from causing more division in the country. He confirmed that the executive members have been mobilised for sensitised at community/family levels to ensure that people understand that implications of the decision, and save themselves and Nigeria from the “calamity” that might befall it. The Christian youth leader described the Muslim-Muslim ticket as adopted by APC as an insult on the sensitivity of Nigerians, and Christian youths have loudly said a big No to that decision. He, thus, called on all peace-loving Christian youths and their counterparts in other faiths not to allow themselves to be bought over or cajoled into accepting actions and decisions that are not for the unity and progress of Nigeria.