“What has love got to do with it? She and Lanre are having a Baby and haven’t you been on her case to leave her married lover?” Jasmine asked sarcastically. “Yes but snatching another that is almost married is not right either,” I said in frustration. Jasmine just doesn’t get it! “Why are we even making a fuss? Shebi she never do the test? Make she do am first na. I beg I no fit drink panadol for anoda person headache oh, what’s to eat? I am starving!” Jasmine said abruptly changing the subject in a true Jasmine style. I went along with it because I was also getting sick of the subject. Why stress over what we are yet to confirm. Jasmine and I watched a movie and she slept over since Christopher is not in town. The next morning as early as 5.00am my phone started ringing incessantly, grumpily I picked and Bola just went into a flurry of words I couldn’t make sense of. When she was done I gathered she was outside and needed to see me urgently. I stepped out and saw her outside the gate; she didn’t look like she had slept at all. “You poor Baby, it looks like you didn’t sleep. Is everything alright?” I asked wrapping my arms around her as she shuddered from the early morning breeze or may be something else. I took her inside and made her a cup of tea. “What is it dear?” I asked after she was done with the tea, I insisted she take it first to help her gather her thoughts. “Tobs will you go with me to see the Doctor?” Bola asked in a mousy voice. Oh so this is what this is about. “Of course dear,” I said without hesitation.  We are in the Waiting Room and for the first time, I see Bola actually agitated. “Can you stop going up and down? You are making me nervous with your pacing,” I said calmly. I decided there and then that it isn’t the end of the world if she is pregnant. Yes it will be messy but Bola will survive, she had us, her friends with her as her support team. The Doctor took her time to come back with the Report and Bola was almost out of her mind. “I am sorry, I had an emergency, please step into my office. We need to talk,” Dr Kate said mildly. It seemed serious, try as I would I couldn’t read her expression. She was devoid of any. Bola looked frightened and at that moment I felt compassion, I took her hand and squeezed them comfortingly, trying to reassure her that she wasn’t alone. “I am not going to beat about the bush, No, you are not pregnant but there is an issue. You have fibroid!” “Fibroid?” We both echoed. “Yes, fibroids are abnormal growths that develop in or on a woman’s uterus. Sometimes these tumours become quite large and cause severe abdominal pain and heavy periods. In other cases, they cause no signs or symptoms at all. The growths are typically benign, or noncancerous. The cause of fibroids is unknown. You can choose to remove it or leave it if there are no complications. You could use a method called Myomectomy. In a myomectomy, I can remove the fibroids, leaving the uterus in place. If the fibroids are few in number, you may opt for a laparoscopic or robotic procedure, which uses slender instruments inserted through small incisions in your abdomen to remove the fibroids from your uterus; it is not a usual procedure and has high rates of success. Nothing to worry about,” Dr Kate concluded smiling for the first time, probably to put us at ease. All what she said sounded like Greek but I do remember Bola complaining of excruciating pains during her monthly period and for some time now her periods have extended beyond her normal 4 to 5 days and she has also been spotting in between periods. It made sense now. Dr Kate went ahead to tell us that 80% of all Women will develop uterine fibroids at some point during their lives. Because many women don’t experience any symptoms, it’s possible the incidence of uterine fibroids may even be higher.