Governor of Benue State, Dr Samuel Ortom, has described the Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party, LP, Mr Peter Obi, as a man with impeccable credentials and qualified to pilot the affairs of the country come 2023. Governor Ortom’s lavish eulogies on Obi came when Mr Peter Obi paid him a courtesy call in Abuja. Ortom explained that Obi has clear credentials, qualifications and capacity to rescue the nation. The governor made it clear that the nation needs urgent rescue from the doldrums and Nigerians need to look beyond political party affiliations to vote a capable and competent leader. “Where we are in our country today demands that we look beyond politics, and together join hands to rescue and rebuild our country,” Ortom said. He urged all the presidential candidates to look beyond personal interests and prioritize the welfare of the nation. Governor Ortom commended the decision of the former Anambra State governor to engage Nigerians, especially major players in the country’s politics, irrespective of political leaning, on his desire to serve as the country’s next president. He said: “Even though I am a big stakeholder in the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Obi considered it noble to visit and brief me of his political journey to contest for the presidency.” Ortom urged Obi to reach out to other presidential candidates, discuss with them and analyse Nigeria’s situation, and see if they would agree to step down for him, describing the idea as a possibility that can work for the nation. In his reaction, Obi appreciated Governor Ortom for his kind hospitality and audience during the visit. He explained that his visit was to show respect to him, as a friend, and notify him of his plans to serve the nation as the president. He restated his readiness to lead Nigerians in rescuing the nation and rebuilding it. He maintained that the many economically disadvantaged Nigerians who are unhappy with the state of the nation are going to form his political structure. “I have said severally that the 100 million Nigerians living in poverty, the 35 million unemployed Nigerian youths, the millions of people dissatisfied with the lack of social cohesion and mutual trust among Nigerians and indeed everyone not comfortable with the present state of the nation, are all my structures. Above all, God in heaven is my structure and with Him, we shall win,” Obi said.