The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Hon. Sunday Dare has saluted the gallant and spirited play of the Super Falcons after their game against the Moroccan female team in the second semifinals of the African Women’s Cup of Nations. Eulogizing the Super Falcons team, Hon. Dare said, “your resilience, character, and management of the game must be commended. I salute your doggedness, commitment and fighting spirit. For holding the Moroccans in front of over 45,000 capacity crowd you have once again displayed the never say die attitude of true Nigerians. “Even when down to nine players after those red cards, you held your own. You are our champions. Nigeria is proud of you.” “It was a match I followed very keenly and I am so proud you displayed the Nigerian spirit. I am proud of this team, even in defeat”. Similarly, the president of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Melvin Pinnick has showered encomiums on nine-time African champions for a valiant display despite several odds and obstacles in the encounter against Morocco in Rabat on Monday night.  “Of course, we would have been happy to be in the Final and chase a 10th title. But I am happy with the performance of the team and the way and manner they approached the game despite all sorts of setbacks and intimidation.  “To play 50 minutes of a game with only nine players is not an easy task. The Super Falcons gave their all and were truly fabulous. They had the ‘Nigeria spirit’ in them and showed a sense of patriotism, were dogged and refused to give up. Penalties are forever a lottery, so it could have gone either way. I commend the team for the outing.  “Our girls did a massive job on a night they were not only depleted but challenged by laser lights trained on their eyes by the crowd. I am enamoured by their resilience and tenacity. The next step now is for the Federation to do everything possible to prepare the team adequately for the FIFA World Cup finals coming up next year.” Already, the NFF has secured a total of four friendly matches for the Falcons in the Fall, with the team scheduled to play the United States Women’s National Team in Kansas City and Washington D. C in September, and also to fly to Japan to take on that country’s women’s squad in Kobe in October. Both opponents offer diversity in style and approach.