From Gyang Bere, Jos As members of the Vwang Community, the host of Karl Kumm University, Vom, open the gates of the institution for academic activities, the Vice Chancellor of the institution, Prof Nanven Audu Gambo, has assured the people that the management will consider a qualified candidate from the community for the position of Register. Prof Gambo disclosed this on Monday when Vwang community led by the President, Vwang Development Association (VDA), Jonah Gworu, Berom Youth Moulders-Association (BYM) and other associations resolved the lingering misunderstanding that has delayed the smooth take-off of academic activities. Youths from the host community under the Berom Youth Moulders-Association had closed down the institution for over one year following the refusal of the management to honour the Memoranda of Understanding signed with the Vwang community and the announcement of Dr Daniel Kim as Registrar of the Institution. Prof Gambo expressed excitement over the action of the Vwang people who open the gate of the institution and described them as hospitable, accommodative and trustworthy saying that justice would be done for all parties involved. “I want to appeal to the Vwang community that let us mend the broken trust, as believers, trust is very critical in sustaining harmonious relationships, we must learn to trust one another,” he said. The VC emphasised that he had earlier called on the Gwom Rwey Vwang, Da Gyang Balak to inform him that the Registrar of the Institution has been appointed a Registrar at the University of Jos, and that a suitable candidate from the community may wish to apply once the position is advertised. “Right now, we are about to conduct an interview for the position of the registrar and we have had four applications from people who are interested in the position but we will have to shortlist only those who meet our criteria and I don’t think the community should entertain any fear for now,” he added. “We are not totally insensitive to our commitment in terms of responsibility to the community, there is what we call Corporate Social Responsibility and that will manifest when we have grown the university to a certain level, that is when the community will appreciate the university more. “We want you to give us the benefits of the doubt, that we will do what we have promised by the grace of God. If we believe in God, then we should be hopeful at all times,” he appealed. The Head of Civil Service, Plateau State, Engr Sunday Hyat, who represented Governor Simon Lalong at the peace meeting, appreciated the Vwang community for listening to the government to open the university’s gate. He explained that the governor had mandated him with Commissioner for Higher Education, Plateau State to resolve the lingering crisis rocking the institution and ensure that each party get justice for the smooth take-off of the institution. Engr Hyat said they had a series of interface with the community members which yielded a fruitful result and commended the resilience of the youths who insisted on doing the right thing, and assured them that the community stand to gain a lot if they join hands with the management to grow the institution. “The governor made a commitment, now that he had played a role in fostering understanding between the University and the community, we will now channel our energy towards the National University Commission (NUC) to ensure that the license of the University that was suspended is secured now that there is an understanding between the institution and the community.” President, Vwang Development Association (VDA), Mr Jonah C Gworu, expressed delight over the efforts of the Head of Service, Commissioner of Higher Education and Governor Simon Lalong who directed the duo to wade into the lingering impasse. He urged the management of the university to implement the terms of agreement reached with the community for a healthy and mutual relationship. The Chairman of Berom Youth Moulders-Association (BYM), Barr Emmanuel Mangu, who open the gate gave the university two weeks ultimatum to appoint a qualified candidate from the community to the position of the Registrar and honour the Memoranda of Understanding signed with the community. Vwang community had donated land which Karl Kumm University was developed valued at N1.4 billion and a trailer of cement worth N1.5 million for the smooth take-off and progress of the Institution.