From Isaac Anumihe, Abuja Ahead of this year’s Eid-el-Kabir celebration, the Commandant General of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Ahmed Abubakar Audi, has ordered the deployment of over 30,000 officers and men to beef up security across the nation. In a statement, Audi charged all heads of directorates, departments, zonal commanders, state commandants, area commanders and divisional officers to deploy massively across board in order to ensure a hitch-free celebration. “We have geared efforts towards keeping our people safe and critical infrastructure protected during and after the sallah celebration. “The recent spate of attacks and threats to life and property in the country calls for more proactive engagements, rather than reactive actions. “We need to identify and address areas of concern to our collective safety by deploying personnel adequately to protect soft targets. “Nigerians deserve a safe and peaceful environment and we must not allow bandits and terrorists to hold us to ransom now or anytime during festivity. “I have ordered the deployment of over 30,000 personnel across all our formations for effective deployment to all nooks and crannies to address all forms of threats to national security”, CG assured. The corps helmsman maintained that adequate security will be put in place to safeguard praying grounds, recreation centres, markets, shopping malls, motor parks and all critical national assets and infrastructure. He charged those in riverine areas to deploy necessary equipment like boats for periodic patrol of the nation’s waterways to beef up security and forestall illegal activities of vandals and bunkerers. Also to be on the watchlist of the corps are suspected black spots and other vulnerable areas to prevent destruction of both human and material resources. “We are now experiencing assymetric conflict which requires new strategy, vigilance and effective action. The corps will not rest on its oars to ensure that crime is nipped in the bud and perpetrators are brought to justice. “I therefore, urge the good people of Nigeria to go about their legitimate businesses without fear, as our deployment will ensure safety and orderliness during the festivities” Audi reiterated. Meanwhile, mobilisation of personnel for the Sallah operation will be drawn from anti-vandal unit, Special Female Squad (SFS), Rapid Response Squad, SWAT, Special Forces, CG’s Special Intelligence Squad, CG’s Anti-vandal Monitoring Squad, CBRNE, K9 Unit and the intelligence and surveillance team to ensure covert and overt security operation before, during and after the celebration. He called on members of the public to assist NSCDC and other security agencies with useful Information about suspicious persons or acts that could threaten the peace and stability of the country. He congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari and other Muslim faithful across the country on this year’s Eid-el-Kabir celebration and charged Nigerians to seize the occasion to pray for the unity and progress of Nigeria.