From Obinna Odogwu, Awka Some of the suspected killers of the lawmaker who represented Aguata II Constituency in the Anambra State House of Assembly, Okechukwu Okoye, have been arrested. The state governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, disclosed this during a holy mass celebrated in honour of the lawmaker at St. Patrick’s Catholic Church, Isuofia in Aguata Local Government Area of the state. Press Secretary to the governor, Christian Aburime, in a statement, quoted Soludo, as saying that the remaining suspected killers of the lawmaker must be apprehended and that they must pay for their crime if found guilty. The statement reads: “Eight persons suspected to be in connection with the murder of the late Anambra lawmaker, who represented Aguata Constituency Two, Hon. Okechukwu Okoye, have been arrested. “Anambra State Governor, Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo dropped the hint during a holy mass celebrated in honour of the lawmaker at St. Patrick’s Catholic Church, Isuofia. “Governor Soludo pledged that his government will not rest on its oars until all the criminals involved in the gruesome murder of the lawmaker are brought to face justice. He also expressed his solidarity to all the victims of criminality in the state, and reassured that every criminal will surely face justice “While consoling the immediate family and the members of the legislative arm, Governor Soludo reemphasised again that justice must take its full course on the murder case, calling on communities in the state to intensify support for government in its fight against criminality across the state by flushing out the bad eggs among them. “These people are not unknown gunmen. They live among our people; some of them have families and operate from various communities. We need you to help us identify them so that they can face justice,” Governor Soludo said. “The gunmen came with their strange religion, but there is no relationship between light and darkness. Their gods drink blood, but ours doesn’t, that’s why we need to fight them together,” he further said. “The governor also made a case for ‘operation know your tenants,’ commencing with Isuofia as a way of identifying the criminal elements within the communities. He stated that the state House of Assembly had already written to INEC about the vacuum that exists in the constituency, with Hon. Okoye’s exit, pointing out that soon a by-election would be conducted to complete his tenure. He also promised that every entitlement due to the late lawmaker would be paid to the family he left behind.” Cardinal Nominee and Catholic Bishop of Ekwulobia Diocese, Most Rev. Peter Okpalaeke, presided over the mass celebration.