By Merit Ibe     The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) has decried the state insecurity and poor infrastructure are worsening the country’s business environment. Its President, John Udeagbala, who made the disclosure at the opening of RightChoice Electronics, a World-Class Electronics Showroom in Aba, Abia State recently, thanked the managing director of the company for his resilience that birthed the showroom even in the worsening business environment in the country. “The business environment has not been too good because of the obvious reasons of insecurity and poor infrastructure, which have become endemic. “Talk about commuting, businesses cannot deliver products and goods and so we are still suffering from this poor infrastructure and that is what is worsening Nigeria’s business environment. We have been talking about what can be done to improve things. You could see now that the government has no money. If you look at the budget and capital expenditure, government is barely having money to pay. The execution of capital expenditure is very bad because of fuel subsidy payment. “So if we must get to the root of this problem rather than scratching from the top, it is either we fix our refineries or we will continue these stories”, he said. The Catholic Bishop of Aba Diocese, Abia, Bishop Augustine Echema, who prayed at the showroom urged youths to be responsible at workplaces and businesses to grow such establishments and create more jobs for others. He warned them against destroying the endeavours of one’s employers and relatives because of greedy and jealousy, adding that such actions reduce employment opportunities and also draw God’s anger. The Bishop urged youths to desist from obtaining by tricks, robbery,  kidnapping and destruction of businesses and workplaces under their watch but to be productive stressing that God blesses genuine efforts. Echema called on Aba people to come out from Social Media and take real life actions that will benefit the nation by being “a structure to good candidates who have no structure” in the coming elections, urging every resident of the city to get their PVCs and be obedient that obedience is the first law in heaven.  The Managing Director, RightChoice Electronics, Chief Ogochukwu Mgbii, said the company was incorporated in 2007 with focus on importation of electronics and electrical appliances, Distribution. Mgbii said from a small shop on 20 Pound Road in Aba, Abia, they have expanded businesses to Port Harcourt in Rivers and Uyo, in Akwa Ibom. He said the establishment and opening of the Aba world-class showroom as is obtainable abroad is a dream come true. He thanked the company’s supporters and customers who made the project possible. The Abia governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu, represented by Chief Godswill Nwanorue, Abia Transport Commissioner expressed joy over the establishment of the showroom in Aba.