From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The management of National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) and the government of Bangladesh have agreed to collaborate in exploring mutual benefit in the areas of Waterways. The agreement was made when the High Commissioner of Bangladesh to Nigeria, Masudur Rahman, led a team on a courtesy visit to the Managing Director of the agency, Dr George Moghalu, in Abuja on Friday. Masudur, while stating his mission, invited NIWA management to Bangladesh to explore potential areas of mutual benefits. According to him, the areas of mutual interests will include dredging and cultivation of agricultural products along various river basins across the country. Responding to the requests, the Managing Director expressed readiness to collaborate with the country, insisting that development of the waterways will contribute to economic growth. Admitting that he accepted the notification for the visit because of the country involved, he said: “I felt very excited about your visit because I know that Nigeria has a lot in common with Bangladesh. “Apart from the fact that we are both large countries, waterways and diversities in language, religion and tribe, we also share common sentiments with Bangladesh. For us in NIWA, we appreciate the potential and enormity of what the maritime sector can make in the development of the economy. We also believe strongly that if we develop our waterways it comes with lots of advantages that will bear heavily on the GDP of our country. Speaking earlier, the Bangladesh High Commissioner said: “We will give support in seeking collaboration in the areas of dredging, training, creating river basin opportunities like fishing and agricultural products. Bangladesh has those opportunities and I think it can be a win-win collaboration between Bangladesh and Nigeria. “Nigeria riverbanks are very fertile and could be potential areas of mutual collaboration. We can strengthen our bilateral relationship with the exploration of riverbanks.