From Okwe Obi, Abuja Presidential candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), Sen Rabiu Kwankwaso, has lamented the spate of insecurity, economic hardship and unemployment, with the submission that the country bleeds. Kwankwaso stated that the operators of government lacked how to govern a multi-cultural, multi-religious and multi-ethnic country like Nigeria. He spoke yesterday in Abuja, during the unveiling of his running mate, Bishop Isaac Idahosa, for the 2023 elections. He said: “The sad reality is that our country is bleeding from several and severe wounds inflicted on her either as a result of the incompetence and insecurity of the operators of government or the total lack of understanding of how to govern a multi-cultural, multi-religious and multi-ethnic country like our own. “Their insincerity and intolerance have inflicted an injurious wound to the social fabric of Nigeria; their nepotism and parochial approach to governance has inflicted severe wound to the country; their ineptitude and lack of empathy have dealt a damaging blow on the body psyche of all Nigerians.” The former defence minister said the choice of Idahosa as the vice presidential candidate of the party was made after careful considerations and screening of more than 20 prospective candidates, all of whom he said were eminently qualified to run with him. He described the cleric as someone with an outstanding record, impeccable integrity, broad understanding of the Nigerian state and its contemporary challenges. “Idahosa is a man of impeccable integrity and credibility with a clear understanding of the country’s contemporary challenges,” he said. “He is a full-time believer and promoter of United Nigeria. I believe we can work together with sincerity to heal the wounds inflicted on the country.” In his acceptance speech, Idahosa, who presides over the God First Ministry, Lekki Light Centre, in Lagos State, hails from Edo State. Aside from calling on Nigerians to come out in their numbers to vote for credible leaders, he tasked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to remain steadfast in ensuring the votes of Nigerians count. “Let us come together and work towards healing our country. We must endeavour to face the challenges of the moment, rise together and work together to build the Nigeria of our dreams”, he added. On his part, NNPP’s National Chairman, Prof Rufai Alkali, said the team would rescue Nigeria from its present challenges. Alkali said: “We are proud to say we have a dream and formidable team that is well rooted. “The team has the sagacity, and managerial skills to steer the affairs of our great nation. Our party is deeply committed to rebuild friendship and fraternity. “We however condemned the recent trend of vote buying rearing its ugly head across Nigeria. We want Nigeria to be vigilant so that our collective gains is not destroyed by desperate politicians.”