From Magnus Eze, Enugu Association of South East Town Unions (ASETU) has commenced mop up efforts at increasing the number of registered voters in the region. It also urged the Igbo of voting age to ensure they registered and got their Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs). This was contained in the communique issued, yesterday, at the quarterly meeting of National Executive Committee of the Town Unions issued in Enugu. The NEC members including the Presidents-General of ASETU, South West Igbo Town Unions, and ASETU Abuja Chapter,  deliberated on burning issues affecting the Igbo in the areas of security, economy, general welfare as well as the unfolding political situation in Nigeria. Of immediate concern was the ongoing National Voters’ Registration exercise by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), slated to end by July 31. In a communique by National President, Chief Emeka Diwe, National Secretary, Gideon Adikwuru and National Public Relations Officer, Chief Monday Ikokwu, ASETU directed Igbo Speaking States Town Union PGs to redouble efforts both in dissemination of information on the exercise and assisting in the registration of their people at the villages, towns and autonomous communities. It enjoined them to design the most effective modalities to achieve increased voters’ registration within the remaining period. ASETU, however, vehemently condemned the growing cases of vote-buying in any guise or form, and called on the Presidents General to embark on massive campaign against such inimical act by educating the uninformed electorates on the danger of selling their consciences for paltry sum. “Furthermore, State PGs have been directed to synergize with INEC and their various state governments and make provisions where necessary, with a view to making the exercise seamless such that those waiting to register are not frustrated at the registration points on flimsy grounds. “State PGs are also enjoined to continue on the basic voters’ education with LGA President of Presidents (LGA PGs) through whom the Autonomous PGs would receive such basic information with regards to transfer of polling units, change of mutilated or lost PVCs in ways that would not result to double registration and ultimate cancellation of one’s name from the Voters Register. “That all critical stakeholders in the South East region, particularly the Traditional Rulers, Town Union Presidents-General, opinion leaders, Market Associations and trade groups are to speed up the sensitisation and mobilisation of their people for mass participation before the 31st July, 2022 deadline,” the group said.