This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.     To dream about something is one thing, but to make necessary efforts and to challenge oneself to achieve the impossible is an altogether different thing. Alfredo Barulli’s success story has proved that success can be achieved at any age; one only needs to recognize the right opportunities at the right time and work consistently with passion. He is a young boy from Italy, who currently resides in Canary Islands, Spain. He worked as a personal trainer and also owned a personal training studio, then moved to the UAE, excelling at this niche. Alfredo even worked as a Spa manager at a prominent international hospitality firm. After working for 7 years in Dubai, he wanted to pursue his dreams of travelling the world and get into digital marketing. Alfredo Barulli then started documenting his adventures and travels on social media platforms and saw many people asking for his help in building sales funnels and running their FB ads campaigns. He got into the business full-fledged and opened his company 10X Experts Agency, to help high ticket coaches and consultants, building their sales funnels and running their advertising campaign for them to get high qualified clients on autopilot. His travelling increased and his Instagram went on increasing with followers. Along the way, he met many business owners who wanted more exposure and leads; that’s when he started the second division of his business (http://www.expertsinlocal.marketing/) for lead generation services. At the same time, hotels and resorts started asking for collaborations; that’s where he created a special guest generation system for luxury hotels & resorts, which is not only about likes and comments. He created Tropic Advisor, the first search engine for tropical destinations. Ask him what keeps him different within the industry and the young talent points out that there are no influencers that guarantee guest inquiries when visiting hotels. All they do is post, stories and maybe a blog article or YouTube video; this means visibility, comments, likes, etc., but no real inquiries. He is the only one who does what they do and generates leads for the hotel with the name, email, and phone number of each inquiry passed to the hotel reservation team. Regarding 10X Experts Agency, where he serves as the CEO, it is the first and only digital marketing agency for High Ticket Coaches and consultants, where they build a funnel for them, run ads, etc. For local business owners of any kind, Experts in Local Marketing are the only ones that offer a free trial with free leads for the first week, building a funnel and running ads with their own money, delivering results and leads for businesses in 7 days where clients pay nothing. Generating leads is what Alfredo Barulli specializes in with his firms and also as a travel influencer, he personally offers guest generation services through sponsored posts to luxury hotels and resorts so that they get massive exposure with his Instagram account and his tropicadvisor.com, they get an article published on their “tropic inspiration blog”, their hotel featured in the TOP 4 hotels of the month section, the article gets converted into a video which gets posted on Instagram, YouTube, and Facebook. Alfredo Barulli says the fact that there aren’t any limits to social media marketing and advertising motivates him as the clients get happy and keep coming back.