From Paul Osuyi, Asaba Over 70 support groups for the Labour Party presidential candidate in next year’s election, Mr. Peter Obi and his running mate, Yusuf Datti Ahmed have met in Asaba, Delta State where they re-affirmed their commitment to ensure that the party wins the election. Most of the groups are based in the state while others with global and national spread sent delegates to the town hall meeting. Some of the groups included Voice of Patriots, Ndigbo United Forum, Doctors and Medics for Peter Obi, Harrison Support Network for Peter Obi, Door to Door for Peter Obi, Vulcanisers for Peter Obi, Nollywood for Peter Obi, Winning People for Peter Obi, Ika Mechanised Farmers Association of Nigeria, Take by Force Movement among others. Welcoming participants, Delta State chairman of Labour Party, Tony Ezeagwu said the meeting followed a directive from the national secretariat to state chapters to organise town hall meetings for all support groups with a view to having better coordination ahead of the campaigns. Ezeagwu said the approach was a departure from the past, urging all participants to contribute their quota to ensure success at the elections for candidates of the party across board. Also speaking, national vice chairman of Labour Party (South-South), Prince Reuben said the Obi/Datti ticket has become a spiritual force that cannot be stopped. Reuben stated that other political parties were collapsing into Labour Party because of Obi Movement, adding that those behind the Obi/Datti ticket were Nigerians of no mean political repute. “So when they say we are only on social media, I laugh at them. If I tell you the names of those who recommended Datti as running mate you will be shocked. We have a structure that is intimidating the opponents,” he stated. He further explained that the purpose of the meeting was to integrate all the groups canvassing for the Obi/Datti ticket into the mainstream Labour Party. “You cannot fight from outside, you have to be inside the party to fight. Those who want to work for the party as agents during the election and will not be compromised, we will fuse them in. “That is why the national leadership gave us this directive to start meeting with the people and stakeholders of like minds,” he added.