From Magnus Eze, Enugu There is still palpable fear and apprehension in Nkpologwu community of Uzo Uwani Local Government Area of Enugu State, days after a ferocious demonstration rocked the area. Youths in the community were protesting the brutal shooting of a 22-year-old man, Philip Okoro, by members of the local vigilance group, which led to his death. Initial reports indicated that the victim was 15 years old but that was swiftly debunked by the police. The vigilante team members were said to have stormed the residence of the deceased, on the night of Wednesday, June 29, 2022, to arrest him. Some persons alleged that this was sequel to a disagreement over land related issue in the market earlier in the day. The victim allegedly resisted arrest and in the process, he was shot on the waist by one of the vigilance group members. He reportedly died the next day, Thursday, June 30, thus sparking off violent demonstration across the community. An eyewitness, who identified himself as Ifeanyi told Daily Sun that the news of the young man’s death angered the youths that went on rampage, burning down houses belonging to the members of the vigilante: “We’re currently living in fear because we don’t know what will happen next and we’re helpless. “Immediately the news of the death hit the village, youths mobilized and went on rampage. As I speak, the house of the Chief Security Officer (CSO) of our local government, Chijioke Ezugwu has been completely burnt down. “The house of another businessman, Anthony Ani, was torched and this arson is spreading by the day. We call on the relevant authorities to rise up and save our agrarian community before the situation goes out of hand completely.” But another source attributed what happened to attempt by the vigilance group to rid the community of peddlers of hard drugs and illicit substances. In fact, he said that the victim was accused of selling methamphetamine popularly known as Mkpurumiri and when the security team went to arrest him, he resisted and made attempt to run away which led to the shooting. The atate Police Command has confirmed the killing of the young man and  revealed that two members of the vigilantes group connected to the incident have been arrested. Command’s spokesman, Daniel Ndukwe, said Commissioner of Police  Abubakar Lawal, ordered the Deputy Commissioner of Police in-charge of the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) to launch a full-scale investigation into the case of alleged shooting of “one Philip Okoro (m) aged 22, by a Vigilante at Mkpulogo community in Uzo-Uwani LGA on 29/06/2022. The victim was rushed to the hospital and later confirmed dead on 30/06/2022 at about 3pm, by doctors on duty. “Consequently, two members of the vigilante group directly linked to the shooting and murder of the victim have been arrested. Additionally, the pump action used for the act has been recovered.” He said in protest of the death of the said victim, an angry mob set ablaze the house of the team leader. However, he said the fire was put out by police operatives. He said normalcy had returned to the area, while the police boss urged residents of the community to remain law-abiding and avoid acts capable of breaching public peace in the area. He then enjoined them to support the Police in the ongoing investigation.