From Lateef Dada, Osogbo and Molly Kilete, Abuja Five governorship candidates in Osun State, yesterday, spoke on their plans to improve the security of the state, raise the economy and others if elected on July 16. The candidates, who featured on Channels Television included Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Ademola Adeleke of the People Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi of the Accord Party (AP), Lasun Yusuf of the Labour Party (LP) and Goke Omigbodun of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). Ogunbiyi said he was seeking the position because of his success in his business, saying, “I am the Awolowo of this era. I will create 100,000 jobs.” He told other contestants to step down for him, saying, “I will collaborate with all security operatives and recruit more Amotekun. I won’t allow the Amotekun to carry arms. All the Kabiesis will have one Amotekun guiding them.” Governor Oyetola said he remains the best candidate because of his over 30 years of experience in the private sector and 12 years in the public sector. On security, Oyetola said: “We have the joint task force that takes care of armed robbery, kidnapping and banditry. Our collaboration with Amotekun has been effective. “There was a helicopter but it has broken down and the cost of repairing it is huge. It will cost about 300,000 dollars. The address can be given to whoever likes to see it in Port-Harcourt. Amotekun had been very effective. They collaborate with the hunters to go into the bush and pursue the kidnappers.” The former deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, Lasun Yusuf, said he remains the most qualified because he has occupied Ine of the highest positions in Nigeria. “I will develop a robust community development association that will work with Amotekun and collate intelligent information. Senator Adeleke said he would provide equipment and gadget for the police as well as collaborate with the traditional rulers to resuscitate the neighbourhood watch. Also, Omigbodun promised to incorporate vigilantes by making laws to make it effective, saying, “we can use drones for intelligence gathering.” Meanwhile, the Inspector General of Police(IGP), Usman Alkali Baba, has ordered the deployment of the Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID), DIG Johnson Babatunde Kokumo to Osun. DIG Kokumo, supervisory DIG for the South-West Geo-Political Zone, is to be assisted by four Assistant Inspectors-General of Police, four Commissioners of Police, 15 Deputy Commissioners of Police, and 30 Assistant Commissioners of Police. Force Force Public Relations Officer,  Muyiwa Adejobi, in statement, said the IGP has also ordered deployment of adequate police personnel in the ranks of Chief Superintendents of Police and below to ensure a crisis free election. He also said the IGP, is expected to address stakeholders meeting in Osun elections on July 12, in Osogbo.