By Enyeribe Ejiogu, Paul Osuyi (Asaba), Oluseye Ojo (Ibadan), Lateef Dada (Osogbo), Layi Olanrewaju (Ilorin), Abel Leonard (Lafia), Olanrewaju Lawal (Birnin Kebbi), Okey Sampson (Umuahia)   The Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party, Mr Peter Obi, has felicitated with all the Muslim faithful in Nigeria on the celebration of Eid-el-Kabir, while urging Nigerians to sustain hope in the nation. In a message made available to the Sunday Sun, Obi reiterated the need for Nigerians to sincerely love one another and pursue lasting peace and unity. He encouraged the citizenry to continue to preach peace and unity in the country as critical requirements for national growth and development. Obi said the season also afforded Muslim faithful the opportunity to pray, in a special way, for the country which he said is passing through very severe challenges, stressing that the nation needs divine intervention to be able to overcome the challenges facing it. “We are at a very dark moment in our nation’s history, where it seems that every noble ideal that makes us a nation is collapsing before our eyes. Insecurity in the country has become unbearable, while our economy continues to struggle under the weight of bad governance and financial mismanagement of our leaders. With prayers and hard work, we shall overcome,” Obi said. Obi urged Nigerians not to give up on the country, but renew their zeal in working towards building a new and more productive nation for all. He maintained that with good leadership, Nigeria would be rescued from the doldrums and placed on the path of growth and development. Delta State governor and Vice Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, on his part urged Muslim faithful to emulate the Holy Prophet Mohammed by imbibing the ideals of his sacrifice. Okowa charged Nigerians to renew and be focused on their hope for a greater country. Similarly, Enugu State Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, in a goodwill message to Muslims prayed for God’s boundless grace and favour upon all Nigerians stating that the solemn festival of Eid-el-Kabir, anchored on love and sacrifice, comes with the peace, unity and fulfilment, which the country needs to forge ahead. A member of the House of Representatives, Shina Peller, representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa federal constituency, in his message urged all Muslims in Nigeria to love the country, saying that they should always be driven by love for the nation, and fellow Nigerians. “This period presents to us another opportunity to be more steadfast in faith and to embrace righteousness, love, peace, endurance, tolerance, forgiveness, justice, fairness and all the good things associated with Eid-Al-Adha celebration,” Peller said. With the Osun governorship election in sight, Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, in his Eid-el-Kabir goodwill message advised residents of the state to eschew violence and any act that may undermine the peaceful conduct of the July 16 election. He also advised political gladiators to play the game according to the rules in the forthcoming gubernatorial election. Oyetola enjoined Muslim Ummah to adhere strictly to the lessons and teachings of the festive and embrace the food teaching. In Kwara State, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq said that with peace, the nation would prosper and make progress. He, therefore, urged the citizens to work for peace always. Nasarawa State governor Abdulahi Sule while felicitating with Muslim community in the state to obey traffic rules to avoid road accident in the cause of the celebration. He also urged to ensure enhancement of righteous living, love and peaceful co-existence in the society. Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu while felicitating with Muslims over the celebration of Eid El Kabir festival, expressed gratitude to Allah for His blessings.  He urged the people to remain loyal and respect their leaders while calling on the leaders to place more emphasis on developmental issues. Governor Okezie Ikpeazu in a goodwill message to Muslims urged them to imbibe the lessons and virtues of sacrifice, forgiveness and love for one another. The governor used the opportunity to restate the determination of his administration to deal decisively with those who behind the spate of criminality and kidnappings around Umunneochi LGA and its environs. Meanwhile, the Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC), urged Muslims to use the occasion to pray for peace, love, unity, tolerance and selfless service to the nation. IPAC said Nigerians should renew their faith in the Almighty Allah and the fatherland, and promote virtues and ideals that foster unity, progress, development and advancement of the country. “Nigeria is in a difficult situation entangled in economic stagnation that has impoverished millions of citizens, elongated security challenges, deplorable infrastructure and confusion in governance. With prayers and collective efforts of patriotic Nigerians we shall surmount and overcome these challenges and build a great nation future generations will be proud of,” the group said.