From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has listed 748 ballot boxes, 240 voting cubicles and unspecified number of Continuous Voter Registration machines and Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) as the items consumed in the recent inferno in its office in Enugu State. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) for Enugu State, Emeka Ononamadu, had reported that INEC’s Igboeze North Local Government Area office, Enugu State was set ablaze by unknown arsonists at 11.48pm on Sunday, July 3, 2022. In a statement signed by National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, the commission revealed that the incident has been reported to the Nigeria Police for investigation and further action. According to the statement made available in Abuja, the commission explained that: “the arsonists overpowered the security guards, forced their way into the premises and set the building ablaze. Although no casualties were reported, 748 ballot boxes, 240 voting cubicles, office furniture and equipment were destroyed in spite of the best effort of the Enugu State Fire Service deployed from Nsukka. “The Commission is working to ascertain the status of voter registration machines for the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) exercise as well as uncollected Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) locked up in the fireproof cabinet. “The incident has been reported to the Nigeria Police for investigation and further action. The attack, coming in the middle of the voter registration exercise and other preparations for 2023 General Election, is worrisome. “It will be recalled that on May 23, 2021, our office in the neighbouring Igboeze South Local Government Area was attacked in a similar manner by unknown gunmen. This followed earlier attacks on Udenu Local Government Area office on 13th May 2021 and the State Headquarters in Enugu on 16th May 2021. “The Commission has since substantially recovered from these attacks and resumed normal activities there, including the CVR and collection of PVCs. The Commission will continue to work with the security agencies and the emergency services to protect our facilities,” the statement read.