By Sunday Ani The former National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus has congratulated the Osun State Governor- elect, Senator Ademola Adeleke, on his well deserved victory at the Saturday’s governorship elections. Prince Secondus described the victory as a clear affirmation and demonstration of the people’s goodwill in appreciation of the efforts of the Adelekes in the development of the state. The former National Chairman also commended all those who contributed greatly to the sweet victory in particular, as well as the party’s 2023 presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and his vice presidential candidate, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. He also commended Governor Duoye Diri of Bayelsa State and his National Campaign team counterpart, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State who manned the situation room, the Chairman of Governors Forum, Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, and the National Chairman, Prof Iyorchia Ayu, and his National Working Committee and others. He equally commended the civil society groups for checkmating the electoral system for good results. The former National Chairman praised the Osun people for standing up for democracy through their avowed determination to ensure that their will prevailed in the state. And also for waiting patiently to reclaim their victory after they were robbed four years ago. “By this brave and courageous act, Osun people have shown their determination to take their collective destiny in their own hands, and for this, PDP and all lovers of democracy are proud of them. The former National Chairman also noted that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and the various security operatives significantly played by the rules. “We are standing on the euphoria of this to urge the INEC and other critical players in our democracy to ensure that 2023 reflects the will of the people,” he said. He commended the international community for their vital interests in the country’s democracy and urged them not to relent at ensuring that the people’s will to prevailed in all electoral circumstances. Prince Secondus recalled that four years ago, the international community openly decried the electoral fraud in Osun State gubernatorial poll and said this year was a significant and positive departure. While wishing the victors successful tenure, he equally charged them to observe all the tenets of democracy and rule of law in the course of administering the state.