From Fred Itua, Abuja and Agaju Madugba, Katsina Katsina State Governor, Aminu Masari, has accused the federal and state governments as well as security agencies of failing to protect Nigerians. He spoke against the backdrop of unending terrorists attacks, banditry, kidnappings, killings and other violent crimes across the country. In an interview published by BBC Hausa service, yesterday, Masari said the people rely on government and security agencies for protection, but admitted: “We have failed in doing so.” He, however, said it was not only Nigeria that was witnessing security challenges as the trend was also ravaging neighbouring Niger and Mali. Masari said though the  President Muhamamdu Buhari-led government and security agencies were doing their best,  the people were still left vulnerable to attacks. “Security officials and we the government are who the people rely on to protect them, and we have failed in doing so. “But if you take a look at the cause of the failure, a lot of security operatives have been killed. Not up to two weeks ago a commissioner of police lost his life; an inspector lost his life; soldiers have been killed, officers have lost their lives in their efforts to tackle insecurity. Insecurity has not just affected Katsina State only, it has affected almost every state in Nigeria and also some of our neighbours like Niger, Mali are also battling this issue. “There has been improvement unlike before, but we haven’t reached where we want to and we are praying to God we will overcome and tackle the issue of insecurity before handing over to the next administration.” The Katsina governor expressed shock over the recent inauguration of a notorious and wanted terrorist, Ada Alero, as a chief in Zamfara State by the Emir of Ynadoton Daji which led to the monarch’s suspension. “We have not forgiven him for multiple killings carried out in Katsina. I was surprised to hear that an Emir conferred a traditional title on a terrorist.  If he enters Katsina, we will arrest him so that he can answer for his atrocities.” Meanwhile, Katsina State indigenes have expressed concern over the recent breakdown of law and order across several villages and communities in the state saying most of them have been forced to flee to neighbouring countries for safety. The aborigines, under the aegis of Concerned Katsina Youth Vanguard in Abuja, said insecurity has not only displaced thousands of its people, but has led to a gradual exodus into neighbouring countries where they are further exploited and maltreated.  Abu Makera, who spoke on behalf of the group, said non-state actors laying siege to their communities, have plunged them into a state of helplessness, adding that killings  have become a usual occurrence in most Katsina communities.     “To further show the high level of insecurity in the state, bandits recently opened fire on the convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari’s advance team heading for Daura, ahead of Sallah, near Dutsin-ma in Katsina. This ugly security threat is becoming worrisome and embarrassing because this is the home state of President Muhammadu Buhari who is the chief security officer of the country. “It is obvious that the situation is beyond the security agents attached to the state. Therefore, we are using this medium to call on the federal government to deploy more security to the area before it is too late. Mr. President should act now.”