Vice President Professor Yemi Osinbajo yesterday said the Federal Government would proffer lasting solution to the problem of the maritime sector. He stated this in Abuja while playing host to the National Executives of the Council of Maritime Union Association (COMTUA) on the need address the various challenges bedevilling the maritime sector. The meeting held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. National President of COMTUA, Prince Adeyinka Aroyewun said the meeting was to bring to the notice of the presidency the various challenges faced by stakeholders in the maritime sector. He called on the Federal Government to address the problems hindering the progress of the sector. Part of the issues raised with the Vice President, it was gathered, was illegal extortion of levies from operators, unjust delay by law enforcement agents, high cost of diesel and spare parts, poor road infrastructure and inadequacies on the part of terminal operators, shipping lines, and gridlock among others. “It may not be possible to catalogue all the issues bothering our segment of the industry in this singular address, but it is evident that all is not well with our business. Rather than becoming part of the problems, we have resolved to always endeavour to be part of the solutions to the various maladies in our industry. Aroyewun listed suggestions that he said could help in resolving the challenges. The association urged the Federal Government to look into the activities and qualifications of the terminal operators, shipping lines and other agencies with stakes in the industry for proper monitoring as well as keeping them alive to their duties. In his response, Prof Yemi Osinbajo said the greatest concern of the Federal Government was to enhance the process of doing business in the maritime industry. He assured that Federal Government would work on modalities that would help in advancing the prospects of the maritime sector. “I want to assure you of the Federal Government’s support in ensuring that we come up with a workable and enduring plan that would help in taking the maritime sector to greater heights as it is done all over the world,” he said.