By Chinelo Obogo  Lagos Aviation Academy (LAA), one of Nigeria’s leading aviation training institutions, is celebrating its fifth anniversary by launching a contest to allow five aspiring aviation players to win scholarships at its training facility. Founded in 2017, LAA’s vision is to improve the Nigerian aviation industry by making quality aviation training available and accessible to people who aspire to work within the industry. According to the General Manager of LAA, Chinasa Mbene, offering these scholarships is a big step toward making that vision a reality. “One of our goals at Lagos Aviation Academy has been to raise seasoned aviation professionals in the Nigerian aviation industry. For us, it is much more than giving out scholarships or training students, it is about being in a position to make a meaningful difference in the lives of people who aspire to be players in the aviation industry. “In celebration of our fifth anniversary, we will be giving out five scholarships to people who are passionate about working in this sector. To choose the best persons for these slots, we have decided to throw it open by asking as many as possible to register. Once they have registered, they will be shortlisted via certain criteria that we have set and the winners will be announced in August,” she said. The academy director at LAA and chairman of the Association of Aviation Training Organisations in Nigeria (AATON), Bankole Bernard, noted that quality training is a key driver for excellent results within the aviation space. “Quality training for aviation professionals is a bedrock for excellence in this industry. As an aviation training school, we have taken it upon ourselves to ensure that we produce seasoned professionals who will make a quality impact in the industry. We, therefore, use this opportunity to call on other training schools and regulators to ensure that the standard remains at its best.  “We are so grateful for our growth so far, in our five years of existence, we have produced the overall best performer in Nigeria on IATA courses in 2018, 2019, 2021 and most recently, January 2022. Within this period we have also trained over 1,500 students in various courses. Most recently, we have moved to a newer facility to aid our vision of training as many students as possible,” he said. The courses available for the contest include the Cabin Crew Ab-Initio Course; the IATA Foundation In Travel and Tourism Course; Basic Ticketing and Reservation Course;  the Amadeus Practical Course; and the Customer Service Course.