By Damilola Fatunmise Bold and beautiful actress, Bimbo Thomas, has been in the limelight for almost 20 years.  She has featured in over 100 movies, but she is well known for her character in Omoghetto, a hilarious film produced by her bosom friend, Funke Akindele.  Aside acting, however, Bimbo is a film producer, entrepreneur, MC and motivational speaker.  The mother of one opened up on her career, lifestyle and many more. Please enjoy it. It’s so nice seeing you after a while. What are you up to lately?  I’ve just produced two movies simultaneously on YouTube. Both are Yoruba movies. One came out in December and the other was released some weeks ago. What are the titles of the movies?  The titles are Oludamoran (The Counselor) and the other is Aye Are (Life Drama).  What inspired those story lines?  I had the storylines for over five years; it’s all about how men toy with ladies’ hearts. We have so many of such things happenings around us. A guy will just pick a lady and decide to mess with her, knowing that he doesn’t have any good thing to do with her. Even with so many heartbreaks, a lot of ladies still fall victims of men’s traps, because they have refused to sit and think that, if I can be who I am today, do I really need a man? In this movie, a guy decided to pick a lady for a specimen. He even went as far as proposing to her with a ring, and then disappeared.  Well, that’s a movie. In reality is it that easy to do without a man?  Babe, it happens… it’s a true-life story. It’s just that I didn’t want to state out the details, because the owner of the story didn’t give me permission. Even while we were shooting, there was this lady that came on set to see the makeup artist; she approached me and said, ‘Aunty, do you know that my friend also had the same kind of experience you portrayed in the film?’ And I said ‘really?’ So, these things happen. And do you know the way it played out? Throughout their dating period, this guy never made move to sleep with the lady, until the night of the proposal. Hmmm… the lady got pregnant from that their first sexual encounter, and the guy disappeared. I’m just telling you how badly men’s game can be.  And till the end nothing happened to the man?  Yeah, that’s what I’m trying to pull up in part two of the movie. Because normally, I would just end it straight up in part one. It’s like a victim of such occurrence can fall victim again. Yes, you are very right. Until we sit and make up our minds, men will always have a smooth ride over us. I don’t want to let the cat out of the basket yet. Everything is in the concluding part. When are you releasing the movie?  September by God’s grace. We just shot it. We are cooking it seriously. I feel that ladies should have self-discipline. A lot of ladies don’t have self-discipline. They just think once a fine looking man with good job woo them, they are good to go. No! Restrict yourself, ask yourself some questions like ‘do I really want him, will this end well?’ Men think we are gullible. Even if men offend us and come back, we will still forgive and make it flow like nothing ever happened, because women’s hearts are very soft. But then, some of us are trained to be hard-hearted.  What are you doing to keep yourself relevant in the entertainment industry?  There’s nothing special that I am doing. I don’t have a manual to my lifestyle, but over time, I have been able to identify that it’s good reel, no matter how it is. Do you know that it’s more stressful to be fake than to be real? You can’t keep up. And someone like me, a freestyler, I just walked in here and I have been playing. I don’t package in any way, so maybe originality is working for me. I’m not trying to talk anyone down. No! You know what they call street credibility. I grew up at a place where I understood the true meaning of life. I don’t try to overdo anything, either in my dressing or in my manner of approach. Are you saying over the years stardom hasn’t changed anything about you?  Nothing absolutely. Stardom hasn’t changed me from who I used to be. I am still my normal self. Can you stop at the roadside to buy roasted corn?  Hey! If I feel like eating corn, I will pull up and buy it. The worse thing that will happen is for guys, as in street people like me, to rush at me, and I will sort them out. One thing I have also noticed is that if something is happening somewhere, and I get there, they will give me my respect. Street people feel I’m tough due to the role I played in Omoghetto. But sincerely, I can’t say it’s pretty easy because someone like me likes to be anonymous, just like the way I walked in here and there was no too much attention. I like it, but unfortunately, I can’t take it away. Can you quickly take us back to how your career started?  I started as an apprentice with the Odun Ifa Group and moving forward, I joined my friend, Funke Akindele and we started working together. And till now we still do.  What would you say is your greatest achievement as an actor?  I will say ‘open doors’ because so many times when I needed something, for instance, at the embassy, I don’t go through stress. You know, the normal me would follow protocols and queue, but the next thing I would hear is ‘Bimbo, no, don’t queue. Come let me help you’. And you know how strict they can be over there. I don’t pay for premium upgrade, I will just stand on the queue and they will fish me out. It’s been like that. I will get somewhere and they will single me out for good. May it not be the other way round for me. I give God all the glory.  What do you have to say about the rampant and untimely death caused by plastic surgery, considering the fact that you just lost a close person? It happened recently to someone very close and dear to me, and it really got me. We never discussed what she did, but then, people have right to their choices, and I cannot say why did anybody do whatever they did to themselves. But thank God, since I’m conscious of myself, I have never for once been rejected by anyone.  Nobody has ever body shamed you?  Yes. It’s always me versus me. I will be the one to see that ‘oh Bimbo, your tummy is becoming big’ and I will work on it. I am very confident in my skin, my size and whatever speaks me.  What’s your beauty routine? It will look like I’m not being truthful, but seriously, nothing. I’m a lane minder. I deal with my business a lot. I don’t put mouth or eyes in what is not my business. I do gym once in a while. I walk around the estate sometimes and I eat less. I eat fruits, vegetables and take lots of water. God has really been kind to me. I don’t have bruises, even pimples. Bimbo has always had a flawless skin.  Of recent, I noticed that you do more of MC than acting. Do you want to drop acting for MC?  Hell no! I can’t. I’m a born actor. When people started calling me for MC job, I had to approach uncle Gbenga Adeyinka that ‘sir, you will have to train me’. But personally, I do research, read and try to open my mind to happenings around. I think I love it. Can anything stop you from acting?  I don’t think so. I have never pressured myself for anything. I take my time. When I feel I need a break, I take the break, and when I’m back, you won’t even know I ever left.  So, even marriage can’t take you off the screen? No! I don’t live my life for anybody; even my son understands that fact. When I’m going to location, he would see me off to the door and wave at me.  Aside movies, what else should we be expecting from Bimbo Thomas? Oh, do you know about Bimbally wines and the clothing line? Yes, we closed up when I wanted to go and have Jayden. Whenever I want to give birth, everything will be on hold. But then, there is still Bimbally Fabrics.  You celebrated your mum’s 60th birthday recently. What position are you in your family?  I am the fifth child. We are eight, although, we lost one. And mum looks so beautiful like that. Love to mum.