By Chinwendu Obienyi Ten more customers of Fidelity Bank Plc, recently, got rewarded with N10 million in the bank’s season 5 edition of its savings promo tagged “Get Alert in Millions (GAIM)”. The seventh monthly draw of the campaign which was witnessed by representatives of National Lottery Regulatory Organisation, Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), Lagos State Lotteries and Gaming Authority in Lagos, saw Hillary Udekwere and Festus Tochukwu win N1 million each. Furthermore, the bank rewarded 8 other customers across the country. Speaking to Daily Sun, the winners expressed their excitement while thanking the bank for being consistent and supportive in its bid to keep helping Nigerians to save more. Hillary Udekwere, a businessman, said, “I am excited today because I am a million richer today. I thought it was fraud when I was called but when the calls were persistent, I went to the bank and now that I have received the money, I am fully aware that this is not a case of scam. I also want to use the opportunity to thank the bank and encourage other artisans like me to save so that they can win just like I did”. Earlier in his opening remark, the Promo, Chairperson and Executive Director, Lagos and South West, Fidelity Bank Plc, Dr Ken Opara, said the objective of the promo was to help customers develop a healthy savings habit and improve their well-being. Opara who was represented by the Regional Bank Head, at Festac, Paschal Nzeribe, said the bank had set aside N125 million at the beginning of the campaign and added that the bank have rewarded 1,620 customers with various sums of money including 1,550 customers that have won N10,000 each in the 31 weekly consolation draws. He further revealed that 70 customers have won N1 million each in the seven monthly draws the bank has conducted. “As a partner in the success of our customers, we have also taken it upon ourselves to help winners in the GAIM 5 promo to make prudent use of their winnings. While the promo offers customers several chances of winning exciting cash prizes of up to N10 million, we have put in place a dedicated SME desk to provide investment advice to the winners and work closely with them to grow their wealth. I would like to seize this opportunity to encourage those who are yet to open a Fidelity Bank savings account to do so as soon as possible for an opportunity to win millions. Simply visit our website, dial *770# on your phone, or go to the nearest Fidelity Bank branch to open an account, get a debit card and you could be the next winner in GAIM 5”, Opara said.