From Tony John, Port Harcourt Former presidential aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chibuike Amaechi, has denied knowledge of purported plans by the party’s presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, to reconcile him and Senator Magnus Abe. The immediate past Minister of Transportation made the denial when he was interviewed by journalists in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, yesterday. Amaechi stated that there was bound to be internal wrangling anytime political transition approaches, adding that the rancour could be addressed since it was not about governorship. He expressed willingness to meet with the aggrieved members of the party and address their grievances in order to move Rivers APC forward. “I am not aware that there are plans by Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu to reconcile myself and Magnus Abe. “Any time you have transition, you are bound to have disagreement. I am talking about internal rancour amongst us. In one, two, three weeks, we will be able to resolve what the issues are. The issues are not about the governorship candidate. I need to sit with them and say, can we move forward,” he said. Reacting to the decision of the  Rivers State government to prosecute him over the alleged sales of the state assets, the former Rivers governor declared that neither the police nor any of the anti-graft agencies have invited him for interrogation. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. He said: “I hope that the governor has good lawyers. The Supreme Court said in their judgment that he has powers to set up a panel and the job of the panel is to gather information. That after gathering the information, they should pass the information to either ICPC, police or EFCC. The police have not invited me; ICPC has not invited me and EFCC has not invited me. “Secondly, there is what we call fair hearing. At that point where they will invite me, it is called fair hearing because they will hear my own side of the story. You have not heard my own side of the story and you went to court to do what? Something must be giving you confidence. “It is not about being served by the court. The Supreme Court said before you go ahead, you have to send it to the investigating authorities and it is when they finish investigation that they will decide whether the matter will come to court or not. You have not done any of those things and you are in court. So, what will you be telling the court? “Two, everything that was done was done transparently. There was an agency called the Public Procurement Agency and all those things passed through. “We shouldn’t be talking about an issue that is before the court. Let the court decides. Tonye Cole did not act in his personal capacity. He represented Sahara Energy. You know this is political because they are afraid.” He urged APC members to go and work for the party’s victory, stressing that election is a contest and  one person must emerge victorious.