From Molly Kilete, Abuja The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali Baba, has ordered the ban on the use of Police SPY Vehicle Number Plates by vehicle owners across the country. The IGP, said the ban has become necessary to forestall the continuous disregard for traffic rules and regulations and other extant laws guiding road use by individuals hiding under the privileges of SPY police number plates. He has, therefore, directed state commissioners of police to confiscate all SPY number plates currently in use, but said such vehicles should not be arrested unless they are police officers or officers of other security agencies on escort duties. The IGP, gave the warning in a statement signed by the force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwq Adejobi. The statement reads: “The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, has ordered a total ban on all use of Police SPY Vehicle Number Plates by vehicle owners across the states of the federation without exceptions. This is irrespective of whether it is authorised or not, as all authorisations are, hereby, revoked indefinitely. “This order is necessary to forestall the continuous disregard for traffic rules and regulations and other extant laws guiding road use by individuals hiding under the privileges of SPY police number plates. The IGP has, therefore, directed that police officers and officers of other security agencies attached to VIPs, who use the SPY number plates should ensure prompt compliance with this directive or risk being arrested for violation of the order. “Meanwhile, the IGP has directed Commissioners of Police (CPs) in the 36 States of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory, as well as their supervisory Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs), to give full effect to the directives as contained above. The IGP specifically directed the AIGs and CPs to ensure that all SPY number plates currently in use are confiscated, henceforth, but the owners of such vehicles should not be arrested unless they are police officers or officers of other security agencies on escort duties. “The IGP, however, warned that while carrying out these assignments, officers must ensure the rights and privileges of citizens are respected in line with the laws of the land and in accordance with international best practices. Other security agencies and members of the public are enjoined to cooperate with the police in this regard, as the moves are aimed at strengthening our internal security.”