From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The All Progressives Congress (APC) has described the sudden passing away of Kemi Nelson, a chieftain of the party in Lagos state as a big loss to the ruling party. APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Murtala Yakubu Ajaka, described the deceased was a generous politician, loyal and dedicated to APC as a governing party. Nelson reportedly died after a brief illness on Sunday at the age of 66. And in a statement released to newsmen in Abuja, the APC deputy spokesman said that Nelson’s death is a big loss to the APC family. Ajaka maintained that the deceased was a generous politician, loyal and dedicated to APC as a governing party, adding that it is a personal loss to him. He also paid condolences to the presidential candidate of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the Lagos state APC family for the loss. “Nelson stood for unity and was in forefront of championing campaigns that favoured the lives of APC members and the masses. She never gave up on any responsibility. Her contributions to the successes of APC in Lagos state and Nigeria is beyond measure.” “In 1999, she joined Alliance for Democracy (AD) and from 1999 to 2003, she served as the Lagos State Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation during the tenure of Bola Ahmed Tinubu and has served as the Women Leader of Lagos State Chapter of APC and was later made the South West Women Leader of APC. She was the only female serving member of the Lagos State Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC).” Ajaka furthet said that Nelson was a remarkable woman that devoted her life to women’s grassroot mobilization, protecting the cause of women, and encouraging women active participation in politics and setting of goals.” “Kemi Nelson was a tireless advocate of women and youth emancipation. She stood for all those in the world of politics who are unable to realize their potential. “In all situations, whether on the public stage or away from the cameras, she has passion for justice, and her deep desire for a better, fairer world for women in politics shone through, and by her attitude. “She has proven it beyond doubt that women could play a great role in governance and can make a difference. Her tireless efforts earned her the APC Women Leader position, not just in Lagos state but the entire South-west. “By that, the respect of thousands of women politicians across the states who were inspired by her commitment to party politics, democracy, women’s empowerment and eradication of poverty among women defined her person.” While praying Almighty Allah for the repose of late Kemi Nelson, Ajaka said: “Her legacy will stand as an example to all of us to persist in our pursuit of progress because Mrs Nelson was a woman worth of emulation.”