From Kenneth Udeh from Abuja Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu has tasked  the chairmanship nominee of the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), Mohammed Shehu, on improved funding for the nation’s judiciary, particularly federal courts. He stated this against the backdrop of recent legal battle between the judiciary and Federal Government over poor renumeration of Nigerian judges. No fewer than 60 Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs) recently instituted a legal action at the National Industrial Court, Abuja against the Federal Government over poor salaries of judges. Shehu, yesterday, appeared before the Senate Committee on National Planning and Economic Affairs headed by Senator Olubunmi Adetumbi for screening Kalu sought Shehu’s plans on how he would resolve issues of poor renumeration of both serving and retired judges and other judicial workers. The Abia North senator also asked the RMAFC chairmanship nominee of his plans to improve funding of the Supreme Court and other courts within the jurisdiction of the Federal Government. Said Kalu: “Let me thank President Buhari for deeming you fit to nominate you to head this critical organisation, I must say that from my personal relationship with you, that you are capable for this Job. However, I will like you to tell this honourable Senate committee representing the interest of millions of Nigerians on your thoughts over the poor funding of our nation’s judiciary, especially the judges and how you intend to improve their renumeration.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Responding, Shehu said a functional judicial system is required for the nation’s democracy to thrive. On renumeration of judges, Shehu regretted the situation whereby newly appointed judges are placed on the same salary with serving judges, and pledged to look into it holistically when he eventually assumes office after confirmation. On improving the efficiency of the commission Shehu revealed his plans to digitalise the operations of RMAFC, while also stating his intention to quell the infighting amongst various revenue agencies of the Federal Government.