From LAYI OLANREWAJU, Ilorin The former special adviser on Legislative matters to President GoodLuck Jonathan and a former senator representing Kwara South senatorial district, Senator Makanjuola Ajadi has accused Governor AbdulRahaman AbdulRazaq of Kwara state of betrayal. This is sequel to All Progressive Congress APC government suit stopping Ajadi’s senatorial ambition for the Kwara South Senatorial District. The suit, which was personally signed by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Legal Matters, Malam Sambo Muritala, will come up on July 26, 2022. The suit among other things challenging Ajadi, who defected from the APC, from contesting the 2023 elections on the platform of another party, the African Democratic Congress, ADC. Daily SUN recalls that Ajadi, following what he described as a fraudulent APC Kwara South Senatorial primary election held at Idofian, Ifelodun Local Government Area of the state recently. He decided to dumped the party for the ADC and secured the ticket to contest for the Kwara South senatorial seat. Reacting to the suit, Ajadi said “it is laughable, we will meet in court if I am qualified to contest under another party or not.” He condemned the APC Senatorial primary election, describing it as a fraudulent process in which he could not identify the delegates elected for the exercise. Even delegates from my Ifelodun Local Government Area, I don’t know any of them. Somebody just sit in one corner to pick their cronies as delegates. Ajadi alleged that Abdulrazaq betrayed him because, “I consulted and confided in him before taking the shot at the Senatorial primary election, but the process was fraudulent. “I complained to Governor Abdulrazaq and even suggested a clear and acceptable process which will be fair and free to all contestants but fell on deaf ears. ” I will fight the battle on the platform of the ADC for my people” he declared, adding that ” if my people in Kwara South Senatorial District cannot get the dividends of democracy, why must I sink or swim with a party called APC?”