Ogbeide Emmanuel Eghosa also known as Emiz is a Music producer, song writer and musical artiste living in Lagos Nigeria. Majored in Afrobeat but well known for his infusion of different sounds from other genre to achieve a unique sweet melodies. The Artiste has worked with lots of major artiste both locally and internationally and hascouple of tracks of his own which has also gained recognition in the Afro beat genre.Having produced for major artiste like Bennie man “Grammy Award Winner”, Busy signal, “IRAWMA Award Winner” Two tigers “African Artiste in Diaspora Awards”, Nevrmind “Award winning Artiste”, Bracket “multiple award winning artiste” and so many more.  Emiz has been nominated in some major awards in Nigeria including Mega Gospel Awards Nigeria as the producer of the year 2014 and also acknowledged for his great works so far. Born in Edo state Nigeria on 4th of June 1991, into a family of Eight, being the last child,he graduated from Ambrose Ali University AAU Ekpoma were he obtained his Bsc. Degree in Business Administration.Got signed to a Switzerland base record label, Evidence Music, as a recording artiste in 2018. My brand “Emiz beatz” is a global movement not just to produce music but to also help up and coming artiste master their talent and craft. so far, My brand Emiz beatz has produced, helped groom and raise young upcoming artiste both locally and internationally. His words: “Seeing young talents grow and fulfill their dreams of becoming a star is also my passion. Talking about my sound, my sound is my sound, I am unique and diverse because of the wide range of my audience. “As a producer/Beat maker, I have produced for lots of Award winning Artiste both locally and internationally, the likes of Bracket, Bennie man, Nevrmind, Two tigers, Busy Signal, Hitrane, Nate, Sherman De Vries and lots more. “As a recording artiste, I have release couple of song over the years and had my first Album “EMIZ” released in 2019 under Evidence Music. I have also featured and got featured in songs by Award winning artiste like Danitsa, Busy signal, Million stylez, Sherman De vries, Nevrmind and lots of others. “As a supporting brand, Emiz beatz has produced, groomed and still working with lots of artiste around the world.”