From Desmond Mgboh,  Kano, Okwe Obi, Abuja and Paul Osuyi, Asaba The New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) has dispelled reports that its presidential candidate, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, has endorsed Bola Tinubu for the 2023 elections. The Campaign Organisation of Kwankwaso, in statement, yesterday, stated that Kwankwaso was still in the race and had no reason or intention to step down for anyone as he has continued to enjoy widespread support from a vast majority of Nigerians. The statement by Muyi Fatosa, said when asked of his opinion of Bola Tinubu during a media interview, Kwankwaso responded: “Bola Tinubu is my friend of many years, if I had not contested, I would have recommended him. I do not play politics of bitterness. We are both in the presidential race, but I am a better candidate.” The organisation said it was unfortunate to see many people taking the statement to mean an endorsement of Tinubu and promoting such misconstrued message on the media. It urged the general public to always verify authenticity of whatever they see in the media, while encouraging stakeholders, party members, fans and supporters of the former governor of Kano State to disregard the fake report making waves on some social media platforms. “Our consultations across all the states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory continue, and so far, the feedback has been positive” they stated. Meanwhile, barely three days to go, Kwankwaso is yet to announce his running mate. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), had given July 15 as deadline for the 18 presidential candidates to submit or substitute names of their running mates. He had considered Peter Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP) as his running mate, but Obi, a former governor of Anambra State, rejected the offer. Obi, recently settled for Datti Baba-Ahmed, the proprietor of Baze University, Abuja, as his running mate. When contracted via telephone, NNPP’s National Publicity Secretary, Agbo Major, did not respond. But a source in the party said the former governor of Kano was still consulting with other political parties. The source assured that the former minister of defence would unveil his running mate before the deadline. “We still have up to Friday to do the needful. The name has not been released.  By the time we resume tomorrow and next, it will be made public. I don’t even the know the person. When Kwankwaso spoke last week he said he was still reaching out to political parties since the Labour Party talks didn’t work . We’ll save Delta from collapse –guber candidate However, governorship candidate of the NNPP in Delta State, Dr. Goodnews Agbi, has said the party was determined to save the state from collapsing. He said the state was suffering under the yoke of indebtedness, noting that there would be a vibrant turn around in the fortunes of the state when NNPP takes over in May 29, 2023. Agbi made this known, yesterday, in a statement announcing his running mate, Anthony Alabi, who hails from Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s Owa-Alero in Ika North-East Local Government Area. “We are determined to bring a change to Delta without being oblivious of the challenges ahead. We are aware your state money, your own very money has been stockpiled to prosecute their perpetuity in office through their surrogates, and partners in pillaging the resources of the state. We will use every democratic and legal means to bring healthy changes to the state affairs. With the support of the downtrodden Delta people, we shall change the narratives.” Agbi said the choice of Alabi as running mate would give the NNPP the strong footing it deserved to defeat the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. He said Alabi was a member of the defunct Grassroots Democratic Movement (GDM) in 1998, from where he joined PDP in 1999. “Alabi has been a well known politician from Owa-Alero in Ika North East of Delta State…Alabi and I are coming into the governorship race under the NNPP to change the state from the collapsing and debt-ridden state to that of a vibrant one amongst the comity of states. We will bring the state to its glory as the third richest state in Nigeria.”