By Maduka Nweke CCI Global, the largest international contact centre operator in Africa, will move to a purpose built, state-of-the-art office in Tatu City, creating more than 4,000 jobs for Kenyans. CCI’s facility will be developed by Gateway Real Estate Africa (GREA), a private development company specialising in turnkey construction. The five-story tower is custom designed for CCI, with training facilities and a career centre to welcome new employees. CCI has grown rapidly in Kenya since entering the market in 2016, specialising in the operation of outbound, inbound and webchat multi-channel contact centres, serving leading international brands, primarily in the mobile, technology, telecommunications and financial industry sectors. CCI’s expansion comes amid unprecedented demand for the company’s young, highly skilled workforce in Kenya, which has swelled to over 2,000 agents in the last 12 months. The facility at Tatu City, scheduled for completion in Q4 2023, will double the firm’s capacity to more than 4,000 seats in a single location. “CCI’s business in Kenya, which serves well-known American, British, Australian and other international brands, continues to accelerate, thanks to our dynamic workforce, quality assurance and operational excellence,” said Mark Chana, CCI’s Chief Operating Officer. “We are excited to build CCI’s home at Tatu City, in a business-friendly environment that focuses on the welfare of our employees.” CCI’s contact centre will provide business process outsourcing, or BPO, that supports the whole customer lifecycle in both traditional voice interactions as well as digital. The Grade A office building with five floors and two levels of underground parking will anchor Tatu Central, the business district of Tatu City. “The building is custom-designed for CCI, with large floor plates for flexible call centre operations, rapid lifts for seamless shift changes, ample natural light and employee welfare at its core,” said Greg Pearson, co-founder and CEO of GREA. “We are pleased to develop this spectacular building for a world-class client like CCI in Africa.”