From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja The Presidency has said the activities of terrorists in the country would not stop President Muhammadu Buhari from honouring international obligations. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said this while reacting to condemnation that has trailed Buhari’s decision to participate in the International Development Association (IDA) for Africa Summit in Dakar, Senegal, amid deteriorating security situation in the country. Adesina said: “Yes, the president should go because there’s an international conference meant for heads of states and presidents, he should attend. You should never give in to terrorists. The moment theories begin to stop you from doing things, then we might as well throw up our hands in surrender. The President should go ahead. Yes, it’s an international obligation Thank you.” Earlier in a statement by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, the Presidency had announced that Buhari was departing the country Wednesday for the summit. Shehu said the President is to be accompanied by seven relevant government officials. Those on the entourage are the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Geoffery Onyeama; Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; as well as Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo. Others on the entourage are:  the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele; Director- General, National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Amb. Ahmed Rufa’i Abubakar; Director-General, Debt Management Office, Patience Oniha;  and the Managing Director of the Bank of Industry, Olukayode Pitan. President Buhari is expected back in the country at the end of the Summit on Thursday, July 7. Shehu explained that IDA, an institution of the World Bank Group, is deepening its support to drive a resilient recovery for countries hit by the global crises of climate and COVID -19, growing levels of insecurity and more recently, by the impact of the war in Ukraine through its historic $93 billion 20th replenishment cycle (IDA20) which goes into effect between July 1, 2022 and June 30, 2025. “At the High Level event slated for Thursday, July 7 and hosted by President Macky Sall of the Republic of Senegal, President Buhari is expected to join other African leaders in an open Dialogue on Development Challenges and priorities as well as transformational initiatives that will lead to an outcome document, the Dakar Declaration. “This commitment is expected to chart the way forward for the transformation of the economies of these nations  in partnership with the World Bank/IDA. “Topics slated for discussion include: Financing for Recovery and Economic Transformation in Africa; Agriculture, Livestock and Food Security; Human Capital; Digital and Technological Innovation; and Energy Transition and Climate Change”, he said in the statement.