From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan A ranking member of the House of Representatives, Muraina Ajibola, representing Ibarapa Central/Ibarapa North federal constituency of Oyo State, has led over 18,000 members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. The defectors were officially received by the APC chairman in the state, Isaac Omodewu, and Oyo South senatorial candidate of the party, Oloye Sharafadeen Alli, as well as other notable leaders of the party at the weekend in Igangan, Ibarapa North Local Government Area of the state. Vice chairman of the party in the state, Alhaji Olaide Abas, and a former state secretary of the party, Mojeed Olaoya, were among leaders of Ibarapaland that attended the rmeeting. In his address, Ajibola said he has the records of about 18,000 persons, who followed him from PDP to APC, begging members of his new party, to be steadfast, assuring them that more people would still dump the parties they are presently for APC. The party’s chairman, Omodewu, stated: “We are here to ensure that we unite our people. This mammoth crowd are defecting to our party from PDP today. We have been appealing to them to stay in their home. They don’t have anything to do outside the party when we are working hard to return to Agodi Government House in 2023. “For those contemplating of going to other party, no place like home. Let them stay in their house. As the chairman of the party in the state, I will continue to appeal to them to stay in the party. If you see what is going in here today, you will see the need to unify our people. Our chances in 2023 election is very bright and that is why our primaries were very tense.” In his own contributions, the Oyo South Senatorial candidate, Alli, also noted: “We are making efforts to make sure that we bring those aggrieved back to the party. You can read in the news that I visited some of those who contested against me at the primaries.  Two others are outside the country and as soon as they return, we shall resolve all these issues.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “The beauty of it is that they have not left our party but we shall find a lasting solution to whatever grievances they may have. I am not the only one who is qualified to represent our senatorial district. All of us are qualified at one point in time, God only put one person there and he had said at this time, it is my turn. You will agree with me that reconciliation is a process and ongoing thing. I can assure you that before next year elections, all of us will be in one party.”