Obey the Lord’s rules with your money and offer him the best things from your farm. If you do, you will not have enough places to store everything from your farm. And you will have more wine than you can keep(Easy English Translation) A key aspect of our lives where many people would love to see God’s favour in action is in the area of finances. Solomon who was the wisest man who ever lived declared in his writing here, he said, “obey the Lord’s rules with your money.” If you do, you will have financial abundance such that you will not have space to keep your harvest. Why do many Christians struggle financially? Many of them are disobedient to God’s rules about money. God has set up some rules in the scripture on how you ought to use money and he planned that whatsoever you sow, that is what you will reap. Galatians 6:7:  Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. Many Christians suffer because they do not believe this scripture. We believe most of the other good promises of God but many people struggle when it comes to believing scriptures that requires them to give money. Financial favours induced by God comes to you when you do what God has commanded you to do with your money. In Malachi 3:10 says  “Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the LORD of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it.” Tithing is one of God’s buttons for financial flows. While many people quarrel with it, others simply disobey it because they feel they do not have enough. God said, bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse so that there can be meat in His house. He said if you do, He will cause financial favours to come to you by opening up windows of heaven and pouring out to you, blessings such that you have no room for it. Do you believe this instruction and promise of God about your money? What is the tithe? It is 10 percent of what God gives to you; either from your salary or profits from your business. Leviticus 27:30 says And all the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land, or of the fruit of the tree, is the LORD’S: it is holy unto the LORD. God said that all the tithes belong to Him. That is God’s rule about your money. Whether you will obey it or not is a different ball game. When you tithe, you honour God. The first evidence of honour is obedience to the words of whom you honour. If you honour God you will obey His commands. Solomon declared that honouring God by obeying His commands with respect to your finances is the key to financial favors. Do you desire financial favors? Then obey God’s rules with your money and offer to Him the best things from your income. Your tithes must be treated as Holy. God said it is Holy, you need to obey God and treat it as a Holy thing only offering it to God as He commanded because of the Holiness thereof. This is your season of favour. 2Chronicles 20:20 says And they rose early in the morning, and went forth into the wilderness of Tekoa: and as they went forth, Jehoshaphat stood and said, Hear me, O Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem; *Believe in the LORD your God, so shall ye be established; believe his prophets, so shall ye prosper. This month, you will experience God’s favour in ways you cannot imagine.  You will God’s favor at work in ways you have never imagined. God has made an everlasting covenant with you. He has promised that He will not turn away from you and that He will do you good. He has put His Spirit within you, drawing you forever to Himself. Yea, He rejoices over you to do you good, and He has planted you in your land of promise. He has done so assuredly with the whole of His heart and with His whole soul. He has given you His promise of favour and by favour, He brings upon you all the good that He promised you. Thus saith the Spirit, “the days of favour are upon you! They shall be days of incredible miracles. By the outstretched hands of the Lord, you shall enter into the desires of your hearts.” “As you prepare to get into the month of June, be sure that the month of June shall be characterised by the supply of one grace after another and favour heaped upon favour and I will cause one spiritual blessing upon another to rest upon your household, saith the Spirit.” “Now is the accepted time. I have heard you in a time accepted, saith the Lord. The wait is over. The time for fulfillment has come. In the month of June, the angels of my presence shall be at work, guiding your steps and prospering the works of your hands. Rise in faith, saith the Lord. Behold, I have given into your hands the victory that you have desired.  By the word of the Lord, I speak favour upon your life. I declare that the favour of God finds you in aspects of your life, where you were not expecting it. “I declare that your steps shall be ordered everyday of this month into your places of opportunities. You will be at the right place at the right time. The favour of God shields you from every weapon fashioned against. You are far from all oppression of the enemy for they shall not come near you. “The wisdom of God for wealth creation takes hold of your mind and the works of your hands flourish. Your businesses enjoy tremendous patronage and everything that ought to be given to you comes to you speedily. “I declare supernatural supply for all your bills to be paid off and all those who owe you bring your money to you in Jesus name. “I command every mountain of sickness, mountain of debts and financial difficulties to move away from your life. I command every obstacle to the experience of favour to move away from you in Jesus mighty name.” Last Line: Have you ever wondered what it means to give your life to Christ and be saved? Are you born again? God sent Jesus to die for all your sins so that you will not have to be punished for the same. To be saved means to simply accept Christ Jesus as your substitutionary sacrifice for your sins and to make him lord over your life. Surrender your life to Christ today by asking Jesus to forgive you your sins; ask Him to come into your life and to make you a new person. If you are facing challenges and require counseling/prayers do not hesitate to contact me. I will be willing to assist as much as I can.