From Okwe Obi, Abuja Presidential Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has predicted that the outcome of the Osun State governorship election would be a reflection of the 2023 general poll. Candidate of the PDP, Ademola Adeleke, defeated the incumbent governor of Osun State and candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adegboyega Oyetola with over 20,000 votes. In his congratulatory message to the governor-elect and titled, ‘The ship of hope is already at the harbour’, Atiku noted that the referendum on the administration of the APC had commenced with the verdict of the people of Osun State in electing Senator Adeleke. The former vice president added that the ship of hope was at the harbour under the umbrella of the Peoples Democratic Party, adding that PDP will intensify the work to ensure the uproot of vestiges of bad governance and false hopes towards the 2023 election. He said: “I have always had affection for the people of Osun State for obvious reasons. “At this point in time when our country needs to take a break from the shameful effects of bad governance, it shall be on record that Osun State provided the compass into that brighter future that awaits us at the horizon. “The referendum on the administration of the APC has commenced with the verdict of the people of Osun State in electing Senator Ademola Adeleke, while we know that the 2023 general election will be a full referendum. “It is inconceivable that Nigerians will reward the APC for the failings of the last seven years. “And in a state like Osun, for example, it is been a long time since the people last felt the effect of good governance. “The ship of hope is already at the harbour under the umbrella of the Peoples Democratic Party. “We shall intensify the work to ensure that we uproot all vestiges of bad governance and false hopes towards the 2023 election. “The Imole (light) that has started to shine from Osun shall soon have a national coverage. “One more good thing about the victory in Osun is that it has provided a catalyst for the PDP to see the opportunity when the party works together in unity. “The work to bring the PDP together is a work in progress and the good news is that we are steadily making progress. “As you wake up the morning after (Sunday, the 17th of July, 2022), you may be assured that you are doing so with the illumination that has come to Osun. Congratulations to Sen. Ademola Adeleke, on a well-fought victory. “Also, hearty congratulations to the PDP family and all stakeholders who came together to make this sweet victory possible. “But even more importantly, congratulations to the great people of Osun State for proving that power truly belongs to the people. The march to reclaim Nigeria’s greatness has begun and it shall not stop until we achieve the goal of one people, one future and one country.”