A Federal High Court in Abuja is scheduled to hear a case instituted by Senator Ekweremadu and wife today. Last week, the London Metropolitan Police arrested and charged Ekweremadu and his wife for allegedly bringing a child to the UK for organ harvesting. The UK police had said the alleged donor, Ukpo Nwamini David, was 15 years old, but his passport data page showed he was born on October 12, 2000. The embattled couple had applied for for a court order directing the Nigerian Immigration Service, National Identity Management Commission, United Bank of Africa (UBA), and Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System Plc to to them the Certified True Copy (CTC) of the biodata information of Ukpo. In an originating summon marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/984/2022, dated and filed on June 27 by their counsel, Adegboyega Awomolo, SAN, before Justice Inyang Ekwo, they said the information were for the purposes of facilitating the criminal investigation and tendering same to establish their innocence with respect to Ukpo’s age in the charges against them. Meanwhile, the former deputy senate president, yesterday appeared before the Uxbridge Magistrate Court, UK, for his trial on alleged organ harvesting. During the proceedings, Ekweremadu was in the dock where he confirmed his name and date of birth. The prosecutor said bail cannot be applied to Ekweremadu, because he is a “powerful” man who is a flight risk while insisting that the “organ donor” in question is a 15-year-old boy. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The case was again adjourned to July 7 — and transferred to the Westminster Magistrate Court — to allow Suella Braverman, UK attorney-general, to determine whether the case can be tried in Nigeria or the UK.  On Wednesday, Ahmad Lawan, senate president, had said the senate would dispatch a delegation to the UK to see Ekweremadu and his wife. “We have also mandated our committee on foreign affairs to engage with the British commission here in Nigeria to find more details on this case as far as the high delegation is involved. “There will be a delegation to London to see the former deputy senate president.”