Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu, has promised that the July 16 Osun State election would be an improvement of the Ekiti governorship poll. He made the promise in Osogbo, yesterday, while inspecting materials and assessing the preparedness of the commission for the Osun poll. He expressed the readiness of the commission to conduct a better and hitch-free governorship election in Osun. Accompanied by the Resident Electoral Commissioner for the state, Abdulganiy Raji, and other senior officials of INEC, Yakubu visited designated centres to witness the mock accreditation. Yakubu had earlier met the electoral officers at the commission’s office and advised them to be proactive and ensure necessary steps were taken to conduct a smooth election. “Make sure you identify the registration area centres (RAC) so that on the day of the election, you can activate the centres as early as 6am. We should be waiting for the electorate not otherwise. Remember, Ekiti was good, but we want Osun to beat our record in Ekiti and the 2023 general election. “We rely on you for transportation arrangement, early movement of materials, liaison with the security, moving them in good time. We must do this right. At the RAC centres, ensure adequate electricity so that they can recharge some of the equipment like the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System and power banks so that on election day we can have a seamless exercise,” he said.      Meanwhile, Co-chairmen of the All Progressives Congress  (APC), National Campaign Council for the Osun governorship poll, governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos and Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano and the National Secretary of the party, Iyiola Omisore have expressed confidence that APC will secure a landslide victory in the July 16 contest.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The trio maintained that the APC governorship candidate and incumbent governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, would emerge victorious on the first ballot, saying: “There is no room for inconclusive this time around.” They spoke, yesterday, when the Oyetola re-election campaign trail moved to Odo-Otin Local Government Area of the state. Speaking at the palace of Olokuku of Okuku, Governor Sanwo-Olu said the entire structure of the APC and its members were aware of the outstanding performance of the governor, hence the commitment to ensure his re-election for a second term. He added that Governor Oyetola had performed creditably well to deserve another term to consolidate on the good works he had started. “We have come to support your son, a governor who is a pride among governors. This is a man whom God has blessed with deep wisdom and wealth of experience, no wonder he is doing wonderfully well. We are proud to be associated with him and he is an example to many of us. “We have come to show you that he is not alone on this journey. By the grace of God, Oyetola will be re-elected on July 16. “This election is one that is projected to bring progress to Osun, and to Nigeria as a whole. So, we expect Governor Oyetola’s re-election to come with ease and landslide victory. “The good people of Osun, if you are privileged to have an uncommon leader, give him all the support possible. If fellow governors can testify that he is a shining light, that should give a faair idea of how uncommon he is. “We will be here next week for the national  campaign for him. By the grace of God, Oyetola will win and we are going to vote. This is a decision that will bring development and progress not only to Osun, but to entire Nigeria as Osun election will determine next year’s general election,” Sanwo-Olu said. Governor Ganduje said the leadership and members of the party were resolute to deliver Osun for APC. “We are here to give maximum support to our brother, your son, Governor Oyetola. From what we have heard and seen, he has performed excellently well in all sectors and God has used him to bring social development to Osun within the three and a half years he has been administering the affairs of the state. “He has done a lot in education, infrastructure, empowerment, and he has built a good relationship with workers, trade unions, traditional institutions among others. This is the confidence we have that it will be a landslide victory for him in the coming election. There is no way this will be an inconclusive election.” In their separate remarks, Director General of Oyetola’s re-election Campaign Council, Ajibola Basiru, and the APC Chairman, Gboyega Famodun, described the July 16 governorship poll as critical to the state’s progress, adding that only a progressive-minded candidate deserves to be elected. They said: “Governor Oyetola has proven in the last three and a half years that he is capable of fulfilling the responsibilities of the government to the people. Osun is in safe hands with him.” While receiving the governor and members of his re-election campaign council, Olokuku of Okuku, Abioye Oyebode, lauded Oyetola for making traditional rulers in the state proud by fulfilling his promises to their subjects.