Stakeholders from Arochukwu Local Government Area of Abia State have backed the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Ikechi Emenike, ahead of the 2023 election. This commitment was expressed at Ututu where the stakeholders, including women and youth groups gathered to receive the Abia APC leader during his visit to Arochukwu local government. Emenike was at Ututu where he inaugurated branded campaign vehicles of the APC candidate for Arochukwu/federal constituency, Chief Dan Okeke, who said that he had acquired the vehicles months before the primary poll because of his strong belief that Emenike would emerge victorious. Several community leaders, party stakeholders and women leaders that spoke at the event vowed to work very hard to ensure that APC sustained its grip on Arochukwu/Ohafia federal constituency. They expressed their joy at the emergence of Emenike as the governorship standard-bearer of APC in Abia for the 2023 poll. Okeke, appealed to the people of Arochukwu/Ohafia federal constituency to come on board “the moving train” of Chief Emenike and contribute with their votes to put Abia in the hands of a competent leader. The House of Representatives candidtae said his only regret was that he didn’t come to know Emenike early enough to start drinking from his milk of human kindness, high principle, intelligence, leadership skills and practical ideas to make Abia rise from slumber. “He (Emenike) is the only man that has used his position and connections to empower Abia people. He has attracted so many federal jobs to Abians. “This is the only man that will work with technocrats, people of integrity to develop Abia. He is forthright and that’s why fraudulent people demarket him because they know he won’t give them space to operate and waste the resources of Abia if he becomes governor,” Okeke said. Emenike urged the people of Arochukwu/Ohafia federal constituency to support his rescue mission as the end product would be highly beneficial to every Abian as well as residents. The APC gubernatorial candidate acknowledged that his detractors have continue to deploy every tool at their disposal to paint him in bad light in order to damage his image. He identified those behind the cruel propaganda directed against him, describing them as the beneficiaries of the rot in Abia who want to maintain the status quo. He pitied the people of Arochukwu for the sufferings they go through to access their homes when going out or coming in due to collapse of Arochukwu – Ohafia Road and Itu Mbuzo Road.