From Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha The Anambra State Government has explained yesterday’s demolition of illegal structures by its task force in parts of Onitsha, the commercial hub of the State. Affected by yesterday’s demolition exercise were some structures attached to the church building of controversial Prophet Chukwuemeka Ohanemere, popularly known as Odumeje.    The Press Secretary to Governor Chukwuma Soludo, Mr. Christian Aburime, in a statement, yesterday, said that the state government had begun the demolition of illegal structures in Fegge, Onitsha, following the expiration of more than two months notice served on developers and building owners who built several illegal structures along the waterway in Fegge and environs within Onitsha. “Following the expiration of the more than two months notice, beginning from April 2022, served on developers and building owners who built several illegal structures along the waterway in Fegge and environs within Onitsha, the Anambra state government has begun demolition of such structures. “The exercise, which is being carried out by a joint government task force, commenced from Bida Road by Modebe Avenue, Fegge Onitsha. “The affected buildings include Mountain of Holy Ghost Intervention Deliverance Ministries, shops and other perimeter fences. The structures were marked since April, 2022, and all developers and building owners were served notice to remove such illegal structures. “The exercise, which is being carried out by a joint government task force, commenced from Bida Road, by Modebe Avenue, Fegge Onitsha. The affected buildings include Mountain of Holy Ghost Intervention Deliverance Ministries, shops and other perimeter fences. “The structures were marked since April 2022 and all developers and building owners were served notice to remove such illegal structures,”Aburime stated. Meanwhile, the demolition of the church of controversial prophet Odumeje has continued to generate reactions. Although the main building of the church, Mountain of Holy Ghost Intervention Ministry World Miracle Centre, Alias Land of Freedom, located at Bida Road, Fegge, Onitsha, was not affected, the security post and another building attached to the church were demolished. There was drama when the joint task force stormed the church premises for the demolition  as the owner of the church, Prophet Odumeje, wanted to stop the task force from carrying out the exercise, but the security agents pushed and rough-handled him before carrying out the demolition. The security guard at the church, who gave his name as Eze, told Daily Sun that the main church was not demolished, as was trending in social media, but a house used as security post of the church and other structures along the bank of the stream were brought down. He said: “The house in question is not even built by the church, though the house is at the front of the church, built by the government in the ‘70s as a police post. We are only using the house as a security post and parking store. So, as you can see, the church is intact, nothing happened to the church as rumoured. Government should leave Odumeje and his church alone and face other challenges.” Also reacting, trader along the Bida road, Mr. Johnson Obika, commended the state government by backing their threat with action, saying that the security post of the church was built on the drainage system. He said: “It is a welcome development, it will help free flow of water when it rains. There are other structures that need to be demolished to clean the drainages. For how long shall we continue to live like this, the right thing should be done and Soludo has started the clean-up of Onitsha.” A member of the church, Mrs. Veronica Nwatu, condemned the action of the state government, wondering why it singled the church out for demolition, among many structures in Onitsha. “Why is it targeted at Odumeje church; it is out of envy and jealousy. Have they finished rehabilitating all the bad roads in Onitsha? Is our church the only structure along this axis? Why are they after Odumeje? Is it because he is doing good and helping people? Nobody shall stop Odumeje’s ministry,” she lamented.