By Henry Uche As part of efforts to give back to the society, the Dangote Cement Plc has launched season 3 of its Cement Promo with 32.3 million gifts for customers and prospective consumers of its products. At the launch yesterday in Lagos, the Group Sales & Marketing Director of Dangote Cement, Rabiu Umar, said “It is a way of giving back to the society. People won N1 million in our last season, but this time around Nigerians can win as much as N5 million at once. This promo is targeted at making as many people as possible millionaires within four (4) months, because the promo ends on October 31, 2022.  “We believe that this effort would stimulate the economy. We have new layers of offering to make consumers millionaires because each person can win as many times as possible,” he revealed.  Also speaking, the CEO of Lagos State Lottery & Gaming Authority, Bashir Are, said that the act was Dangote’s style of sharing his prosperity with the people, where 25 people are expected to become millionaires within four (4) months.  “In this promo, there are over 200 trucks, 36 million gifts, and 25 persons  would become millionaires before the end of October.  We believe this would boost economic activities, secure employment for some participants and we are sure of transparency in the whole exercise,” he affirmed.  For her part, the National Sales Director, Dangote Cement, Sanni Funmi, the gesture was Dangote’s way of saying  “Thank you” to Nigerians.  Funmi explained that the promo would come in three categories and urged customers to “Just buy as many as bags of Dangote Cement, open them, in each bag, you will see a scratch card, at the back of it, you will see a panel, scratch it gently to unveil your gift, take the card to any of our redemption centres to redeem your gifts.  “The next is- to be a millionaire, you have to pick up the seven (7) letters that made up Dangote. (D. A. N. G. O. T. E). Once you are able to pick up the 7 letters, you are automatically a millionaire, because we shall give you one million.  “The last is the mega star gift, if you are able to pick up a scratch card inside a Dangote Cement bag with the letters – “Dangote and an eagle attached”, you   have won N5million. The good thing is that a consumer can win again and again, all you need to do is keep buying the product. Right inside the bag, whatever you see on your scratch card is what would be given to you precisely. And note, this does not affect the current price of Dangote cement.  The prices remains and no changes in price,” she assured.