Let me start this article with some questions: Why is Peter Obi the main issue in Nigerian politics today? Why are Nigerians fond of Peter Obi? Why are Nigerians talking about the former governor of Anambra State and the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP)? I will not claim that I know all the answers to the above questions. Perhaps other Nigerians, including those obsessed with the man, who happens to be the rave of the moment in Nigerian politics, will provide better answers or responses to the questions. However, I will try to provide some answers or reasons most Nigerians resonate with Peter Obi and his political philosophy, his political messages and even his body language. Obi’s politics, which is devoid of the usual opulence and acquisitive tendencies associated with Nigerian political elites, might have attracted Nigerians, especially the youths and even some old people, who are part and parcel of the ‘OBIdients’ movement, a political force with pronounced social media presence. His redefinition of politics in Anambra State for eight years he governed the state and his ability to astutely manage the resources of the state are things that have made him a cult hero and what have even elevated him to a mythical figure that people would want to emulate his shining examples. He eloquently represented the much-needed leadership by example which is scarce in Nigerian political environment. Peter Obi is not flamboyant, he is too frugal with personal and public funds. In Anambra State, Obi drastically cut the cost of governance and left N75 billion in cash and assets to his successor. Nigerians know him with his signature or trademark ‘senator dress.’ While he changes the colour of this his usual dress, the pattern is almost the same. The same goes with his choice of shoes and wristwatches, which are not many. He rarely appears in suits. He does not move with a large convoy of aides like other Nigerian politicians. At times, people may not notice his presence at an occasion until he is introduced. He governed Anambra State for eight years without the office of the First Lady unlike other Nigerian governors, who made their wives alternate governors. When travelling within and outside the country, Obi carries his luggage. While his counterparts fly with private or chartered jets, Obi flies like ordinary Nigerians and in economy class. Nigerians are surprised that Obi does not fly in business class. Since leaving office, some years ago, Obi has been playing what I can regard as developmental politics, adopting schools and hospitals across the country and equipping them with necessary equipment which space will not allow me to elaborate here. He is also into mentoring the youths and other people. Peter Obi is preoccupied with how to make Nigeria work again and he is not desperate about power. He was worried that Nigeria is sliding into a failed state. He is not happy that the economy is fast dying, that the government has indulged in borrowing binge that we spend almost all our earned money to service our mounting debts. He is disturbed that our university students have been on months of forced holiday on account of avoidable strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). Obi is not happy that Nigeria cannot generate the needed electricity and cannot secure itself. Let me digress a bit to touch at cogent issues of national importance before I conclude this article. Imagine the terrorists attack on the convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari in Dutsinma area of Katsina State. Imagine the jailbreak in Kuje Custodial Centre, Abuja, where Boko Haram inmates and other criminals were freed by ISWAP terrorists. What happens to our capacity to gather and use intelligence? I am as disappointed as President Buhari over the failure of intelligence in recent security breaches in the country. If the Kuje Custodial Centre could be easily attacked by terrorists and the inmates released without any response, then Nigeria is in deep trouble. With each jailbreak, Nigeria’s security is being compromised. Look at what is happening in Imo State since the jailbreak at Owerri Custodial Centre. Abuja should brace up for more deadly attacks. The attack on President Buhari’s advance convoy is an attack on the president, it is an attack on Nigeria. The attack on the president’s convoy questions and even contests Nigeria’s sovereignty. Let the Federal Government not think that terrorism will just stop by wishful thinking. Terrorism can only stop when those behind it are apprehended and prosecuted and when its sources of funding are completely cut off, when the war is taken to the terrorists’ camp, when the government stops negotiating with terrorists. Who was actually in charge of security at Kuje Custodial Centre when the terrorists attacked for hours without any response? I hope we will get to know what actually happened at Kuje Custodial Centre. If it could happen in Kuje, occurring in other custodial centres is a possibility. Having digressed a little bit for obvious reasons, let me quickly return to the important theme of today’s gist, which is weaved around Peter Obi, a quintessential Nigerian leader, who modestly likes to introduce himself as a trader. Nigerians love Peter Obi and are very fond of him because he tells them the truth, a very scarce commodity among Nigerian politicians. His economic analyses are laced with cogent and verifiable figures. I often wonder how he reels out those figures extempore in his television appearances and even while giving speeches. Again, Peter Obi does not engage in the politics of calumny or mud-slinging common in this part of the world. He believes that the political space is enough for all the politicians to sell their programmes/manifestoes to the electorate. He does not attack his political opponents and he has asked his supporters not to attack his opponents. He recently apologized on behalf of his supporters for attacking some people.  I can go on and on to adumbrate why Nigerians love Peter Obi’s brand of politics. No doubt Peter Obi is building a team of competent Nigerians who would assist him in rescuing the dying country. He does not claim to know everything. He would like to work with those who would not be afraid to ask him questions or say their opinions. Peter Obi as a Nigerian leader will tolerate opposing views. Nigerians believe in Peter Obi because he has proved to be a competent and trusted leader. He has also being accused of being stingy. And his supporters want to roll even with a supposedly stingy man who will keep the pubic till safe. When Peter is accused of not having the required structure to win the presidential poll, he and his supporters replied that millions of Nigerian voters are his structures. And they are right and cannot be faulted.  I strongly believe that party structure is really about human beings and not concrete walls and iron beams. It is about voters. It is about human beings. It is about people. It has nothing whatsoever to do with structure as in pillars and beams in buildings. And if people with structures could not give Nigerians electricity, stop the raging insecurity, stop Nigerians from drifting into perpetual poverty and could not create plenty jobs, what is the need of party structure? If structure means poverty, darkness, insecurity, unemployment, medical and education tourism, and bad governance, it is then of no use.  Peter Obi is selfless. He is more concerned with the future of the country. He is concerned about the plight of Nigerians, especially the young ones. He is not desperate about power. He is desperate about how to fix the broken country. His is concerned about making this country great again. That is possibly why the crowds of ‘OBIdients’ are growing with each passing day across the country. The foregoing contains the main reasons Peter Obi and his messages are resonating with most Nigerians. They are why he is the rave of the moment as far as the 2023 politics is concerned. They are also why his opponents are obsessed with Obi’s growing political influence. The Obi movement is an idea whose time has come. Nothing can kill or stop an idea.