From John Adams, Minna Barely one week after gunmen invaded a mining site in Ajata Aboki, in Erena Ward, Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State, killing 34 soldiers, eight mobile policemen and a number of local vigilantes, the Nigerian Army has broken its silence with a vow to flush out the criminals in the country. The Commander, 31 Artillery Brigade, Brigadier General Yakubu Yahaya, stated this in Minna, on Tuesday, when members of the Niger state House of Assembly, led by the Speaker, Bawa Wuse, paid the army a condolence visit over the unfortunate incident. The commander pointed out that the army is more determined than before in its resolve to combating terrorism and criminality in the state and the country in general, stressing that the army will do its best to reduce the level of insecurity in the state to its barest minimum. He said: “We are not deterred and we shall not relent in our efforts in fighting crime and criminality in the state. We remain resolute despite the setback. Rest assured that we will do our best until we tone down the level of insecurity to the barest minimum.” He admitted that last week’s incident at the mining site was a serious tragedy to the Artillery Command, adding that the soldiers fought gallantly and the terrorists suffered massive casualties, which were not reported in the media, even when there was no official comment from either the military or the state government on the actual casualties from both end. He appreciated the legislators for identifying with the artillery in its time of grief, stressing that the condolence visit was a boost to the soldiers, the Command and the families of the deceased. “I thank you for deeming it fit to find time to come and identify with us at this trying time when we have just had a very serious tragedy, because we haven’t had it so bad in recent times within Niger state. We sincerely appreciate you for taking it as a matter of urgent discussion during your plenary. Brigadier General Yahaya, however, used the opportunity to clarify insinuation that the soldiers were ambushed by the gunmen. “Our soldiers fought gallantly. They did their best. The social media reports were wrong. The soldiers were not ambushed and the other side suffered serious casualties.” Earlier, the Speaker of the Niger State House of Assembly, Abdullahi Bawa Wuse, expressed the condolence of the state government and the legislative arm of the government over the loss of the soldiers who fought the terrorists during the attack on the mining site. He described the death of the soldiers as a general loss not only to the military, but also to the state and the entire country, as they died fighting to ensure peace and stability in the land. The Speaker promised that the state government will do its best to support the army in its fight towards eradicating terrorism and crime in the state.