From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan Chief Judge of Oyo State, Munta Abimbola, yesterday, swore in former commissioner for Justice and Attorney General, Adebayo Lawal, as new deputy governor in line with Section 191, subsection 3 of the 1999 Constitution. He replaced Rauf Olaniyan who was removed from office as deputy governor by the House of Assembly, yesterday, at about 11:30am. The allegations against Olaniyan included gross misconduct, abuse of office, financial recklessness, abandonment of office and official duty, as well as insubordination and other offences. Olaniyan was accused of not honouring the panel’s invitation at different intervals during the course of investigation, which compelled the panel to make unnecessary adjournment. The lawmakers went on a short recess after removing Olaniyan from office. They reconvened some minutes thereafter for the plenary. At the resumed sitting, Speaker Adebo Ogundoyin said the House received a letter from the executive and he read it. It was for the House to confirm nomination of a new deputy governor. He explained that the letter from the executive was in response to a letter, dated, Monday, July 18, 2022 that was sent by the House of Assembly to the governor, informing him of the removal of Olaniyan from office. The nomination of Lawal, who until his his emergence as deputy governor, served as the chairman, Oyo State Housing Corporation, was confirmed by the lawmakers in less than one hour after Olaniyan was impeached. Majority Leader, Sanjo Adedoyin, moved the motion for confirmation of Lawal, which was seconded by Kazeem Olayanju. The speaker put the nomination to a voice vote. The majority of the lawmakers voted in favour of the nomination. The House of Assembly had directed the Chief Judge, Abimbola, to set up an investigative panel on the allegations. The seven-man panel, chaired by Kolade Christopher, was set up last Thursday and concluded its sittings within three days – Saturday, July 16, 2022. The panel found Olaniyan guilty and recommended his removal from office. Meanwhile, Olaniyan, who spoke through his legal counsel, Afolabi Fashanu, said he was not given fair hearing by the investigative panel, saying: “The investigation by the committee set up by the chief judge is a charade that cannot stand the test of time. “In the first instance, the chief judge, with respect, breached his oath of office by ignoring the service of notice of appeal and application for injunction, pending appeal when he proceeded to constitute the investigation committee. “This is against established law and practice. On the part of the panel, they were appointed and paid to do bodge and botched jobs, which is contrary to good conscience. “They served the deputy governor on Friday at about 10.45 and asked him to appear at 11.am. We wrote to inform them that his excellency needed time to prepare for his defence, in their desperation to do the job for which they were paid, they rejected the letter, sat on Saturday and completed their task the same day. Where is the fairness here? The members of the committee are supposed to be men above board. You have a reverend father, Justice of Peace, alhaji among them. This is a clear evidence that we are not yet ripe for democratic practice.” Makinde, in his address at the swearing-in event, enjoined the new deputy governor to take welfare of the people as his priority, saying: “Our people are expecting more from us. I charged you to make the interest of the people of Oyo State your priority, because to whom much is given, much is expected. We we will look forward to the benefit from your wealth of experience as we move forward in transforming our people from poverty to prosperity. “You will continue to supervise the housing corporation from your office as deputy governor. The Oyo State Road Maintenance Agency will be under your administration and the Ministry of Justice will also be under your administration.” Lawal, however, promised his loyalty to the governor, adding that he would serve the people and discharge his duty as stipulated by the constitution of Nigeria.