From Laide Raheem, Abeokuta The 1992 Set of the Association of Mass Communication Graduates of the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta, Ogun State, have donated state-of-the-art equipment to the television studio of the department. Handing over the equipment including HD cameras, teleprompter, mixer, amongst others, worth N5m to the department on behalf of his colleagues, the chairman of AMACOG 92, Adekunle Adeshina, said that the donation was to enhance practical training of the students and equip them for job opportunities. He added that the equipment would also help the students to compete favourably with their counterparts anywhere in the world. Adeshina stressed that the gesture was demonstrated to mark the 30th anniversary of the old students graduation from the campus. He expressed optimism that the face-lift given to the studio has brought it to the standard of other television stations in the country. The chairman also stressed that the TV studio can broadcast live just like other standard television studios. “We graduated 30 years ago from this department of Mass Communication of then Ogun State Polytechnic, now Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, and we are here to give back to our alma mater. “The studio used to have two cameras, we took them away and we had to rehabilitate one of them. and now we have bought two new cameras. We worked on the ambiance of the studio itself, some of the best that we can get in any TV station is right here in MAPOLY. “We looked around and we discussed with the department and the heads on some areas and deficiencies where we could assist in our little minds, so we agreed. We talked to one of the lecturers and said the highest concentration of the students who applied to this department is in broadcast. And we felt in term of touching the department, the public and the school at large, we should do something about the television studio. “Luckily for us, among us we have people who own television stations, we have people who own radio stations, we don’t have to go too far, we leveraged on our expertise and we appealed to our members where we made our donations”. Adeshina submitted. In his remarks, The Acting Rector of the institution, Dr. Adeoye Odedeji applauded the gesture and described it as tremendous, generous and timely. He hinted that the polytechnic would be meeting the Nigeria Broadcasting Commission (NBC) soon for the accreditation of the station. Odedeji said that 1992 graduates of the department have demonstrated what is expected of stakeholders in the society since it is impossible for the government to meet the entire yearnings of the citizens. “It is practically impossible for any government to meet the yearnings of the people. “The stakeholders must also assist the government. At our own level, we shall put these facilities into effective and efficient use. “Mass communication is a course that requires the students to do a lot of practical assignments and they would need equipment for the practical assignment and this TV studio will be needed”, the acting rector stated. Other dignitaries present at the event include the Head of Mass Communication Department, Mr Lekan Togunwa, a veteran television broadcaster, Eddy Aina and Taiwo Otunba, the ’92 set lecturer of broadcasting.