From George Onyejiuwa, Owerri The Anglican Bishop of Egbu Diocese, in Owerri North council of Imo state, His Lordship Rt .Rev Geoffrey Enyinnaya Okorafor has lamented about that the terrible state of the nation ,saying that the country is now only surviving by the grace of God . He noted that the current leadership of the country is now at sea as to how to get the nation out of her debilitating situation, as kidnapping, banditry, armed robbery and insecurity have spiraled out of control as nobody is safe . This is even as he pointed out that the quest of the former Anambra state Governor, Peter Obi to succeed president Buhari in 2023 should be seen as a Nigeria Project and not an ethnic one, as the country needs men of sterling quality , unimpeachable integrity with clear vision to rescue Nigeria out of her current economic and social quagmire. The Cleric who stated this at the 25th annual Diocesan conference of the Christian Men’s Fellowship (CMF) held at the Holy Trinity Church , Nekede ,Owerri West council at the weekend. Bishop Okorafor said that the country is now surviving by the grace of God and that the church will continue to pray for divine intervention in Nigeria . Said He: ” In the words of the psalmist ‘ if the lord had not been on our side , when men rose up against us ‘.Nigeria is only surviving by the grace of God .We do not need a soothsayer to tell us that Nigeria that Nigeria is on the brink of total collapse. Our leaders are in a state of confusion. The indices of a failed nation are before us. Insecurity at its greatest rate cutting across kidnapping ,killing ,abduction ,armed robbery with no regard to anybody whatsoever ,collapse of our educational institutions, unending strike actions and other agencies ,corruption at its highest level with neither solution nor punishment on offenders ,infrastructural decay and lack of social amenities, vote buying at elections ; non – payment of salaries and pensions ,alarming foreign and domestic debt . The country is in a chaotic state ” . He further lamented that , Nigeria is a nation of inconsistencies and unpredictability . ” A 62 year old man cannot be called a boy .Yet a 62 year old nation behaves and acts childishly. If we have a government in this country ,does it care if its citizenry exist ? Does it care about the welfare of its people ? Nigerians have been forced to become hard core and had boiled shock absorbers suffering and smiling “. The cleric commended the decision of the former Anambra state Governor, Peter Obi not to play a second fiddle saying that his project is a Nigeria project and not an Igbo project . ” We salute the decision of Peter Obi not to play a second fiddle by his quest to replace President Buhari in 2023 . No one should see it as an all Igbo affair because he is mission is a noble one which is to rescue Nigeria from its current debilitating situation. It is a national goal which all Nigerians should key into . We need men of sterling qualities, unimpeachable integrity, clear vision like Peter Obi to rescue Nigeria out of her current quagmire. ” I therefore urge Nigerians to get their PVCs to ensure that in 2023 we shall vote into those we feel can change our current ugly narrative “.