From David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi Not minding the general acceptability the Presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Mr Peter Obi has garnered across Nigeria, the Spiritual Director of Soul Revival Ministry, Nnewi Anambra State, Prophet Iyke Uzukwu has said that Obi would not make it to Aso Rock. The Prophet described Obi as the most sincere, refined and ready to deliver candidate among all the contestants of the 2023 presudential election, adding that the cabals and powers that be never wanted an honest man like Mr Obi to be in Aso Rock. He contended that by all parameters Obi was not a politician but such a leader that if allowed he would bring a new Nigeria. He said there were plans by some people to scuttle the election. “There won’t be a presidential election in 2023 as planned. The other time they were talking about electronic voting system and people were jubilating. Did it stop rigging? 2023 election would be rigged and it would be as good as not having any election. “An Igboman will not rule this country. I’m not trying to discourage Mr Peter Obi. They won’t allow someone like Obi to lead this country. Obi is not a politician, he is a great leader and an honest man. “You see, people don’t like the truth, they don’t want good people to go into that place. They don’t want an honest leader to be there. ‘Unarguably, it is the turn of the Igbo to produce the next president. But there is a secret in this country which they don’t want to tell the Igbo, ” he submitted. Prophet Uzukwu noted that for Obi to have left the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to join the LP before the PDP primary when he sensed what was about to happen proved that he is coming to lead, adding that Obi decided not to be part of the going, going, gone primary his former party held. He also said that Obi would be betrayed by his party members in the North and West as well as suffer sabotage by his brothers in the East. “There are ‘mafians’ in this country. Do you hope on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for a credible election? What INEC does is stage-managing. Don’t expect any free, fair and credible election from the INEC. “Igbo and Yoruba have never been political allied. It was during Abiola’s time that Igbo and Yoruba came together in politics. It is Hausa and Igbo that are political allieds. “One thing with an Igboman is that he doesn’t bow to anyone. The All Progressives Congress (APC) is never accepted by the Igbo as a party. We can vote for them there in Lagos but down in the East, an Igboman doesn’t want to hear anything called APC, ” he noted. He said that he made it clear in 2019 that Atiku-Obi presidential bid would not work except in 2023 when the duo were designed and destined to win. He said it was unfortunate that the two were no longer contesting as President and Vice President under the same political party platform. He said that the APC candidate, Bola Tinubu should rather retire from politics and allow younger ones to lead. He prophesied that there would be three more general elections in Nigeria before the country is divided. He used the opportunity to commend some men of God including Prophet Jeremiah Omotosho, Pastor Chibuzor Chinenye and Apostle Johnson Suleman, the founder of Omega Fire Ministry, Edo State for their humanitarian services to man I and prayed God to reward them abundantly. “When people are homeless, in need, sick and faced by all manner of afflictions our politicians look the other way but these men of God show deep concern, attending to the needs of the poor. Our politicians are after amassing billions of naira and dollar to buy houses in Nigeria and abroad, ” he concluded.