From Fred Ezeh, Abuja Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has disowned the pastors of the Whole Bible Believers Church, Ondo State, where over 50 children were “kidnapped” and kept in the basement of the church preparatory for “rapture” scheduled to take place in September. CAN described Pastor Peter Josiah and his cohorts as agents of Satan pretending to be working for God, insisting that no true pastor would claim to know the date of the rapture, because the Bible clearly stated that it is only God that knows the date of rapture. It added that whoever claims to know the date is not only misleading the people, but a fake man of God. CAN President, Dr. Samson Ayokunle Olasupo, in a statement by his media aide, Pastor Bayo Oladeji, said that, ordinarily, they wouldn’t have made a statement on the matter, but the fact that the church claims to be a Christian church necessitated the response. He insisted that the pastor in question and his church, the Whole Bible Believers Church in Ondo state, are not members of CAN at all levels, and so, he is not known to CAN. “But the fact that the church claims to be a Christian church necessitated that we state our position on his practice.” The CAN president, therefore, commended the police for their prompt actions which culminated in the rescue of over 70 victims from the church premises, thus, suggesting that medical checks should be carried on the victims to ascertain their state of health, physically, emotionally and mentally. He encouraged all denominations to keep an eye on pastors under them to ensure wholesome Biblical conduct, while members of the churches all over the nation are enjoined to cross-check every teaching from the Bible before believing it.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. He called on the police to thoroughly investigate the pastor and his activities, with a view to prosecuting him and his cohorts, if there had been any infringement on the law of Nigeria and the rights of the members in his custody.