By Maduka Nweke The recent gathering of real estate community from Africa, Europe and UAE at UNITE Summit in Lagos tended to secure a sustainable future for the real estate industry. The milestone event marked the 10th edition and the return of the most influential real estate event in Africa since the covid pandemic. During these 2 days. Unite Summit welcomed over 60 speakers, 50 exhibitors, 650 delegates and over 1000 footfalls and was kicked off with a welcome address by the Chairman, Unite ESG Community, Jumoke Akinwunmi who gave a broad overview of the real estate industry in the last 10 years and the role real estate unite has played to fill the gaps.   The edition centred on climate tech, sustainability and ESG with the theme “Towards A Sustainable Culture ‘’ featured a Sustainability conference, Exhibition and ESG recognitions attended by industry stakeholders and individuals who are passionate about improving the efficiency and environmental impact through sustainable practices in the real estate sector.  Speaking on how the African Real Estate sector can embrace a more sustainable culture, the keynote speaker, Prof. Obas John Ebohon, Professor of Sustainability and Environmental Law, London South Bank University, laid emphasis on how and where we build can have a great impact on the African environment on health. “A 36 per cent reduction in CO2 emission by 2030 is expected of the real estate sector to remain under the 2oC target, benchmarking with the Paris agreement target. The ultimate goal is carbon neutrality by 2050” Prof. Obas John Ebohon. Industry stakeholders such as IFC EDGE, Stanbic IBTC, Broll, Elalan, Mixta Africa, Purple, Landwey, Clifton Homes, Karmod, Rendeavour, Dutum, The Address Homes, Horizon Estates, Haven Homes, Master Builders, ACTIS, Family Homes Fund, Home Works and Afriland Properties PLC, Damac Dubai, UPDC, CPL Ghana, Strongmas, 3INVEST represented half of Unite 2022 summit audience. The estimated $768 billion investment potential in green buildings between 2018 and 2030 in emerging market cities is due to the sharp increase in building construction expected over the next few decades and the opportunity to ensure these are built green, according to Dennis Papa Odenyi Quansah, Green Building Lead, IFC Nigeria Ghana & Kenya representative. During his presentation on ‘Introduction to sustainability in the built environment, he gave a holistic view of EDGE and how it aligns with all the major international green finance standards. Green buildings cost 3 per cent more upfront with a 3-year payback he says. As one of the leading real estate events in Africa that provides a unique platform for participants to meet, network and dialogue, Unite Summit as usual hosted  panel discussions on Sustainable building, management and  Finance with some of the talent-thought leaders who shared ideas and opinions towards a shared prosperity.