By Steve Agbota The Kirikiri Lighter Terminal (KLT) Command of Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) yesterday said it intercepted one by 40 feet container of 1,447 packages of prohibited mosquito coils and other items also falsely declared as non-woven paper filter imported into the country. The command also said that it recorded a significant monthly upsurge in the revenue generation profile aggregating to a total sum of N23.6 billion thereby surpassing the N14.6 billion generated from January to June 2021. The Customs Area Controller of the command, Hammi Swomen disclosed to newsmen in Lagos, said the revenue generated by the command has a surplus of N8.950 million, which represents a 38 per cent increase in revenue collected in the first half of the year. According to him, the command impounded N212.776 million codeine based cough syrup, and Hyergra, a sex enhancing drugs concealed in two by 40 feet containers imported into the country. He said within the period under review, he apart from the Codeine and Hyergra, the command also seized one by 40 feet container of 795 packages of prohibited footwear falsely declared as water taps and closets. Conversely, he stated that another one by 40 feet container of 1,447 packages of prohibited mosquito coils and other items also falsely declared as non woven paper filter, adding that all these importations have a Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N271.964 million contravene items number 22 and 17 respectively in schedule 3 of the Common External Tariff (CET). On the challenges facing the command, he said the slide in the exchange rate of the Naira against the US dollars and other international currencies negatively affected the volume of imports, adding that the continuing constraints of the access road and exit of cargoes and among others contributed to the challenges. On the achievements, he noted that the command increased revenue profile by over 38 per cent when compared to the same period in 2021, adding that also reactivated of one of its moribund terminals, increase compliance, increase cargo throughput, and approval of export processing terminal in the command.” However, he attributed the success to the support from the Comptroller General of Customs and the management of NCS and effective collaboration and synergy between the command, other government and relevant security agencies on the one hand on trade facilitation and among others. For the second half of the year 2022, the command has various plans to improve its performance, some of the which include introduction of training programs for officers and men of the command on investigation, risk analysis, enforcement duties, CEMA etc.