From Desmond Mgboh,  Kano, Aidoghie Paulinus, Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja, Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa, George Onyejiuwa, Owerri, Lateef Dada, Osogboand Noah Ebije, Kaduna Congratulatory messages have continued to pour in for Senate Ademola Adeleke, Governor-elect of Osun State and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had defeated the incumbent and  candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Gboyega Oyetola and 13 others in the poll on Saturday.     Yesterday, the United Kingdom and the United States governments applauded the people of the state for their active, peaceful and democratic participation in the poll. The British High Commission, Abuja, in a statement on its social media platforms  said the results released by INEC were consistent with results obtained through civil society-led Parallel Vote Tabulation process. It commended INEC, security agencies, civil society partners and all stakeholders for their contribution to the success of the election. “Our mission which observed the election on Saturday was encouraged by the continuing improvements in the electoral process, following the governorship election in Ekiti State last month. The timely opening of polls, functionality of the BVAS devices for accreditation of voters and electronic transmission of results, accessibility provisions for people with disabilities and vulnerable voters and increased turnout of voters were all factors worth commending about the process.” The UK, however, expressed concerns over reports from some locations of apparent vote buying, even as it hoped that those involved would  be held to account by the relevant authorities. In the same vein, the U.S. Mission to NIgeria lauded Osun State citizens on the peaceful gubernatorial poll. “We commend the concerted efforts of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) staff and security personnel who helped facilitate a secure process that reflected the will of the people.  We encourage all Nigerian citizens to register to vote now so that your voice can be heard in the national and state elections in 2023,” it said. …PDP’s victory test case for 2023 poll – Diri Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, declared that the victory is a test case for the 2023 election which he predicted the opposition party candidate, Atiku Abubakar would win. Diri who was chairman of the National Campaign Council for the Osun governorship Election said Senator Adeleke’s victory was a statement of intentions by the PDP to reclaim the presidency. The North West Zonal Vice Chairman of the PDP, Bello Hayatu Gwarzo, described Adeleke as dogged fighter who fought  hard  for the stolen mandate of the PDP in the last governorship election in the state. “His victory is a light for our party and an indicator that PDP will emerge victorious in the 2023 poll,” he said. Nnamani, Ihedioha hail gov-elect Former governors of Enugu and Imo states, Chimaroke Nnamani and Emeka Ihedioha also hailed the victory. Nnamani, in a statement, yesterday,  praised the presidential candidate of PDP, Atiku Abubakar, his running mate, Ifeanyi Okowa, and the party’s national chairman, Prof.  Iyorchia Ayu, for their  support. “It is not in doubt that the victory of Adeleke was largely influenced by the team work of the chieftains who provided leadership.” Nnamani reminded Adeleke that his victory is a call to higher duty, service to God and humanity. He commended the people of Osun for the overwhelming support given to the PDP at the polls. Ihedioha, in his message, said the victory was well deserved. He also congratulated the PDP and the people of Osun State for their steadfastness, courage and vigilance during the election . “Your emergence as governor-elect is, no doubt, a confirmation of the people’s confidence in your leadership capabilities and a proof of the unbreakable bond of friendship and solidarity between you and them. That is the hallmark of leadership,” he said I was so sure PDP’ll win -Jibrin, BoT Chair The Board of Trustees Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Walid Jibrin, has  said  Senator Adeleke’s victory did not come to him as a surprise. The second republic senator, in a statement, said he had before the election assured the governor-elect of victory. “I was there at Osun during the last campaign and the number of people that turned out for the rally was unbelievable and I was so sure that the PDP will win Osun state. “And this is just the beginning of victory. What has happened in Osun State is an indication of PDP’s stand in the whole country. We, as a party, have learned our lessons and the Yoruba are beginning to learn their lessons too, by coming out to elect Chief Adeleke. We are rest assured that other states in western Nigeria will be won by the PDP come 2023. “By the grace of God, all other states in the country will vote for us. So, the issue of the APC campaign for a Muslim-Muslim presidency will not work. You can bear me witness that it didn’t work in Osun state, so we should not support this kind of politics. “Our concern should be based on who is the best candidate for us that can be in charge of the country.” The PDP BoT Chairman decried politics of religion, describing it as the highest level of division among citizens, adding that it is capable of breeding confusion and war on a people that have been existing peacefully. TMG salutes INEC, residents Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), has lauded Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), efforts at the just concluded Osun governorship election held over the weekend. In a statement entitled: “Post Election Statement on the Gubernatorial Election in Osun State, July 2022” signed by its Chairman, Auwal Ibrahim Musa Rafsanjani, the body praised the electoral body for complying with the provisions of the Electoral Act, especially with regards to improving inclusivity by providing assistance technology for persons with disabilities, and for efficient election logistics arrangement which saw early deployment of officials and materials to the polling units across the state of Osun. It also praised the media other stakeholders for their efforts in ensuring peaceful and non-violent elections and the people of the state for an inclusive and participatory election in the state. Regarding vote buying, TMG insisted that voters must avoid selling their future and good governance because vote buying does not provide good governance, transparency, or accountability. Observers laud INEC, police for peaceful conduct  Election monitoring groups, Pan African Women Projects (PAWP) and Intercontinental Leadership Initiative (ILI), commended INEC and policemen for their roles in ensuring that Saturday’s governorship election in Osun State was peaceful. Speaking at a press conference in Osogbo, yesterday, Dr. Eno Udensi, said reports gathered from 125 short-term and eight long-term observers deployed showed that the election was peaceful and transparent. She said despite the credibility of the election, “Osun elections experienced vote buying at some polling units, especially in the testing ground where we observed voters voting and crossing over to the other side of the road to collect money dramatically.  “The vote buying in Osun was not as unhealthy as that of Ekiti where many persons were trading at the polling units environment.” He said results from 50 field observers deployed for the election showed that BVAS worked perfectly, security conducted itself and the electorate participated fully in the election. Also, Transition Monitoring Group (TMG) lauded INEC’s efforts at the  Osun election. In a statement titled “Post Election Statement on the Gubernatorial Election in Osun State, July 2022” signed by its Chairman, Auwal Ibrahim Musa Rafsanjani, the body praised the electoral body for complying to the provisions of the Electoral Act, especially with regards to improving inclusivity by providing assistance technology for persons with disabilities, and for efficient election logistics arrangement which saw early deployment of officials and materials to the polling units across the state of Osun.  The group also praised the media other stakeholders for their efforts in ensuring peaceful and non-violent elections and the people of the state for an inclusive and participatory election in the state. TMG, which monitored the electioneering process, expressed satisfaction with the high level of voter mobilisation activities carried out by the media and civil society organisations.  Adeleke cautions supporters ageist attacking opponents Meanwhile, the Governor-elect, has cautioned his supporters against attacking members of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Some youths celebrating the victory had gone around destroying posters and billboards of Governor Oyetola and also attacked the residence of Commissioner For Lands, Physical Planning and Urban Development, Nathaniel Agunbiade. It was gathered that some aides to the commissioner were injured while vehicles and other properties were vandalised. In a statement by his spokesperson, Mallam Olawale Rasheed, Adeleke condemned the reported violence of youths celebrating his victory, dissociating himself and his political party from such negative activities. “This is unacceptable conduct and those involved in such behaviour are warned to stop forthwith,” he said while commiserating with victims.