From Obinna Odogwu, Awka National Women’s Leader of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Rita Chukwuji, yesterday, appealed to Nigerians to think about the future of the country and its economy while considering the presidential candidate to support in next year’s election. She tasked voters to drop all ethnic considerations and vote a competent and credible candidates. Chukwuji reminded Nigerians that poverty, insecurity and other socio-economic challenges facing the country do not spare any particular ethnic nationality when they strike and tasked Nigerians to be united in the quest to rescue the country from total collapse. In a statement, Chukwuji said Ohanaeze women had chosen to embrace a competent candidate that would rebuild the country and its economy for the better. “The group advised that partisan politics should be jettisoned in favour of realistic and objective approaches in pursuing the actualisation of peaceful co-existence in all the geopolitical zones, reiterating that as mothers, they would always stand for competence and credibility for the overall progress of the nation, the Igbo and the involvement of women in the governance processes. “To help drive this process, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide recognised the importance of the permanent voters’ cards (PVCs) as the people’s power to bring about the much needed transformation across the nation. “They, therefore, urged all Nigerians of voting age to register for their PVCs in support of good governance, the enthronement of a leader rather than a ruler who would work towards the distribution of democratic dividends with transparency, equity, justice and fairness in all spheres. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “We will be all out to support presidential candidates whose agenda would sanitise the country’s justice system and wipe out all forms of jungle justice, tribal or religious conflicts that have always endangered lives and property. “For the records, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Women Worldwide remain neutral and solely focused on ensuring that all political and presidential candidates put the interest of the people first before anything else, especially the meaningful engagement of the teeming youths population, which should be one of the effective measures for the eradication of youths restiveness, astronomical unemployment, worsening insecurity among other rising challenges in the country today.”