From Chijioke Agwu, Abakaliki The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi State, Stanley Okoro-Emegha, has reacted to the defeat of the party by the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the just concluded Osun State gubernatorial election. The PDP candidate, Adeleke Ademola, had polled 403,371 to defeat the sitting governor and APC candidate, Isiaka Oyetola, Who scored 371,007. Commenting on the outcome of the election, Emegha opined that the party lost the election to the opposition because of unresolved internal party squabbles among some critical stakeholders of the party in the state, and not because of the alleged growing unpopularity of the party across the country. He spoke while explaining the readiness of the APC to win the July 30th Chairmanship and councilorship elections in the state. He said that, unlike in Osun, there was no internal crisis in the party in Ebonyi, adding that all the critical stakeholders of the party were united and working with the governor in ensuring the victory of the party in all elections. “I can confidently inform you that APC is firmly on the ground in Ebonyi State and also at home with the masses and as such, losing the local government elections to any other political party is something no one should envisage. “We have diligently and painstakingly done our homework hence the scorecard is very glaring. This party, APC is not at its fledgling stage in Ebonyi but has come to its stage of full maturity. We have nurtured it through peacebuilding and other reconciliatory efforts as well as inputs from our leaders and the general masses. “Moreso, the state governor, Chief David Nweze Umahi, has through his magnificent projects demonstrated that APC will always be the party to beat in any contest. There is no local government area you will not find uncountable architectural mouthpieces, courtesy of His Excellency the Governor. Their ripple effects have a direct bearing on the socio-economic prosperity of the people. These and many more will also help Ebonyi people to always decide any poll in our favour. “You were very quick to cite the Osun election, but can I tell you that, that election was mismanaged due to an unresolved internal crisis. The major political gladiators sold the party out because of reconciliable differences neglecting the fact that you don’t underrate or underestimate the strength of anyone or political party in any contest. “You don’t just play at the gallery creating loopholes and at the same time expecting magic or miracle as the case may be. In Ebonyi here, we cannot create such a scenario. Only aspirants who are closer and acceptable to the people will emerge as standard bearers of the APC during the primaries. Even where there is consensus, it must be tested in the field. “On 21 and 22 of this month, we will conduct the primaries for the Councillorship and Chairmanship positions respectively in readiness for the July 30th polls. This contest will be taking place in the 13 council areas and 171 wards in the state. “Working in tandem with the guideline of Ebonyi State Independent Electoral Commission (EBSlEC), we have perfected the process up to the level of publishing the names of aspirants. Like the Chairmanship position, we have no fewer than 39 persons who will be slugging it out on the 22nd of this month,” he said.