By Kate Halim You see them wherever you go. At popular bus stops, at markets and even in the streets and highways in Lagos, they move around advertising penis enlargement drugs, creams and herbal potions. These sellers swear that their products work. Under the sun and in the rain, these men are busy calling out to potential customers to buy their products.  On some expressways and bridges, there are adverts and commercials for penis enlargement products – some hand written, others printed on posters or banners. There are also phone numbers attached to these ads. The ads indicate that the products can increase the length of men’s organs. But there is a little problem: science has confirmed that no product can increase the size of an adult’s penis. Saturday Sun spoke to one of the men selling penis enlargement herbal drinks on the popular Ikeja Along Bus Stop, and he insisted that his products work. According to the middle-aged man who identified himself as Suleiman Owai, many men who have patronized him in the past had testified to the efficacy of his herbal drinks. Owai told Saturday Sun that he had been selling penis enlargement herbal drinks for over five years, moving, in his words, from one popular bus stop to another so that he could reach more people. The father of three boys stated that he was quite happy with what he does, noting that he’d been saving lots of men from feeling bad about their small manhood. “These herbs are specially made by me and they have helped a lot of men regain their confidence when it comes to women and relationships. I learnt how to make herbal drinks from my father in adagry since I was a teenager and this business has been sustaining me for years now,” Owai declared. Owai stated that the herbal drinks he sells contain secret ingredients he wouldn’t mention that help increase the size of men’s penis. He added that for the drink to work effectively, his buyers must follow his instructions completely, otherwise, it wouldn’t work. Smiling mischievously, Owai quietly added that men who don’t follow his instructions would not see results. The reporter called one of the numbers hand written on a popular bridge in Coker area of Lagos pretending to be a woman seeking solution for her husband’s predicament. The person who picked the call identified himself as Mr. Johnson Obialor.  He was ecstatic about getting a potential client that he started advertising his products immediately. Obialor who claimed that his customers were happy with his products declined to give more information about his customers when the reporter made a request to have a chat with some of them to confirm the efficacy of his products.  Instead, he clearly insisted that if the person on the phone was interested in getting her husband help, she should buy his penis enlargement oil. “If you no wan buy oil for your husband again, dey go. Make you no call this line again. I dey do business, you dey ask me plenty question. You be police? Why you wan talk to my customers? I think you say you dey find help for your husband.” After a while, he apologised for his outburst and started advertising his products again over the phone. He claimed the oil would increase the reporter’s husband’s penis in no time. He also assured the reporter that his penis enlargement product would increase her husband’s penis by two inches if she bought a bottle. He said: “I know what I’m selling. I have an enlargement oil that will help your husband perform well in bed and make his manhood long and big to your satisfaction. One bottle of this product will increase his manhood by two inches but two bottles will increase it by four inches. It all depends on you. Your husband will surely see results within 21 days if he uses the product morning and night.” At the popular Suru Alaba market along Lagos Badagry Expressway, the reporter also spoke to another seller of penis enlargement products. This man in his thirties who gave his name as Charles spoke rather reluctantly. He was very suspicious of the reporter asking him questions but he opened up when the reporter brought out money to pay for one of his products. Charles said that he buys his products from Ogun State and insisted that they enlarge the penis. He stated that his products are just supplements that do more than just enlarge men’s private organs. He added that men who suffer from quick ejaculation also benefit from his supplements. Beaming with smiles while stating the different prices of his products, Charles said:  “The first thing my product will do is flush out unnecessary particles that are in any man’s body so that it will make his penis respond well to the drug. Any man that drinks my drugs will start seeing results in two weeks. This herbal supplement doesn’t contain chemicals and they don’t have side effects whatsoever,” he insisted. When he was asked if any of his customers have referred other people because of the efficacy of his supplements, he answered in the affirmative. “I have people calling me from different states in Nigeria just to buy my products. Forget that I’m selling them in this area, my products are of international standard. I have helped many men keep their women by their sides. My products also give men sexual stamina and they can go many rounds without getting tired,” he added. And doctors weigh in Dr. Gabriel Omonaiye told Saturday Sun that the industry of penis enlargement products is booming all over the world because many men believe that increasing the size of their penises will make them a better lover or make them more attractive. He added that medically speaking, there’s no pill, oil, cream or herbal drink that can enlarge the manhood of an adult. “It is medically impossible but men keep falling for the antics of some fraudsters who claim their products can enlarge the male private organ,” he said.  Omonaiye stated that even if a man’s penis is smaller than average, it may not matter to his partner. In addition, he noted that there’s no proven way to make a penis larger. He insisted that the solution to these men’s concerns about penis size may be as easy as talking with their spouses or partners or getting in shape through exercises. He added that if those steps don’t help, they should try talking with a professional counsellor about their concerns. Omonaiye revealed that most of these dietary supplements and pills don’t have NAFDAC approval and there’s no way buyers can prove they are safe or effective. “Since supplements aren’t regulated as drugs are, it’s easy for incorrect ingredient types or amounts to be listed on the packaging, which may make it difficult to know how they will affect your health.” Omonaiye stated that like pills, lotions or oils use ingredients like vitamins and herbal aphrodisiacs to increase penis size. He said that these lotions are unregulated and may contain unsafe ingredients. “Some people may experience side effects to lotions containing certain ingredients, like menthol and gingko biloba extract. These side effects include rashes, allergic reaction and burning sensation on their manhood. Another doctor based in Lagos, Raymond Ekpo said that one ingredient in some penis enlargement pills is sildenafil, the main active ingredient in erectile dysfunction (ED) medication, like Viagra. He stated that Sildenafil could be dangerous when consumed in  high dosages, especially for people with heart conditions or those taking medication for blood pressure. According to Ekpo, these enlargement products claim to work through a combination of herbal ingredients and medications. He said that despite the growing market of supplements claiming to increase penis size, no research has been completed to demonstrate how safe these products are. “The little research that has been done over the years showed that these products are ineffective, and some can have potentially dangerous side effects,” the doctor insisted.