The Director-General, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), Mr. Olawale Fasanya, has promised to work with key stakeholders to cause a positive shift in the Micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) development narrative in Nigeria, given its critical  but highly endangered status in  the economy. Fasanya made the remark at  an interactive session with the Guild Of Corporate Online Publishers (Gocop) and editors, where he shared his vision and approach to ensure regular inter-agency cooperation and networking with stakeholders to leverage on available opportunities to close the gaps among key players within the MSME space. Emphasising how  important the sub-sector is to national economic growth and the  several challenges which the COVID-19 pandemic and the ongoing Ukraine-Russia have further worsened, Fasanya said the challenges of MSMEs usually border on access to finance, market, equipment, information, technical and entrepreneurial skills and workspace.  Reeling out his vision for the sub-sector, he said he had  already started engaging with the staff of the agency and other MSMEs-enabling stakeholders, as a continuous exercise both locally and internationally. “I will be meeting some key stakeholders in Lagos tomorrow(today) to enable me harvest inputs directly from real MSMEs players. I am however aware that they were consulted during the process of reviewing the National Policy but the MSME space is very dynamic requiring regular engagements and feedbacks.” Fasanya noted there were programmes and projects in the agency that were carefully designed to address some of the challenges of MSMEs “but it has become necessary to start reviewing such based on the feedbacks that this ongoing engagements from the MSMEs will give us.” He said “part of what we hope to achieve during my tenure is to ensure that I have capable, competent, skilled and healthy workforce. In this regard, I have instructed the appropriate department to put in place specific trainings to bridge identified gaps among staff.” On D-8 Centre for SMEs, which  is a proposal which has  been submitted to the D8 Secretariat he said.