From Bimbola Oyesola The Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), yesterday, placed its members on alert for a possible indefinite strike to demand an end to the continued industrial action by workers in the country’s education sector. The union in a statement jointly signed by its President, Williams Akporeha and General Secretary, Afolabi Olawale expressed concerns about the prolonged strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Non-Academic Staff of Universities and Associated Institutions (NASU) and Senior Staff Association of Non-Academic Union (SSANU) which has paralysed academic activities in the nation’s public tertiary institutions  for the past eight months. It said its planned protest was in condemnation of the insensitive posture of the Federal Government in resolving the strike and allowing students resume classes. “The union joins other unions to condemn the lackadaisical attitude of the Federal Government towards finding a lasting solution to the crisis. We are deeply worried that the strike has left thousands of university students stranded and idle, making some of them susceptible to go into various social vices and crimes, thus truncating what otherwise should have been wonderful assets and blessings to our great nation and humanity. “We are seriously concerned that instead of addressing the nagging issues in the educational sector, the unscrupulous politicians are busy campaigning and wasting resources over 2023 general elections. It is against this background that NUPENG demands together with other Trade Unions, that the Federal Government must immediately address and resolve all demands of ASUU, NASU and SSANU without any further delay to avert national solidarity actions from our members across the Country.” The union warned that the rank-and-file members of the union would  align with the Nigeria Labour Congress  (NLC)’s position on protest against the unfortunate situation in the tertiary education sector. “We are by this press statement putting all our members on alert to be in  solidarity actions on the directive of Nigeria Labour Congress at very short notice. Our solidarity remains constant, for the union makes us strong!” The union equally has expressed dismay over the explosion that rocked the gas section of Matrix Energy Tank Farm, recently resulting in loss of lives and properties at Ifiekporo in Warri, Delta State.