From Felix Ikem, Nsukka Hon Walter Ozioko, the Chairman of of Nsukka Local Government Area of Enugu State, has appointed two Persons With Disabilities (PWDs) in the area as his personal assistants. The council boss disclosed this in his office on Tuesday in Nsukka when Association of PWDs in Enugu North Senatorial District paid him a courtesy visit. He said that his administration was concerned about the plights of PWDs and was committed in taking steps towards improving their living conditions. “My administration will continue to carry everybody along as well as gives equal treatment to everybody in Nsukka LG, as there is no room for discrimination,” he stated. “I am humbled and overwhelmed by the visit of PWDs to my office, in appreciation to that, your leader should send to me, two persons among you to be appointed immediately as my personal assistants. “Nsukka LG belongs to all residents and we have the responsibility to contribute our quote to move the council forward. “My administration will not discriminate against your group or any other groups, i will create and avenue for regular interface and interaction to know your challenges and find a way to solve them based on the availability of fund,” he said. Pastor Jude Uchechukwu, founder and general overseer of House of Liberty Church, Nsukka, who is the leader of PWDs in Enugu North senatorial district, commended Ozioko for the warm reception accorded to the association. “Like you directed, we will immediately send to your office two persons from the association that will serve as your personal assistants. “The PWDs is happy on this appointments and your warm reception because of the sense of belonging it has given to us. “We will do everything within our capacity to always support the policies and programmes of your administration,” he said. He pointed out that the aim of the association was to ensure the welfare of members as well as fight an individual or group oppressing any of their member. “We are using this association to ensure welfare of our members especially those in rural areas who have no means of livelihood. “The association will also visit the remaining five LGs in Enugu North district to ask for their help on the welfare and empowerment of our members,” he said. Uchechukwu however, urged PWDs in the area to always see ability in disability in themselves, by looking inward to find out God’s special gift in their lives. Mr Chigozie Ozioko, a lawyer and PWD, said that he had known the council chairman who is also lawyer even before he became the council chairman as one who believed in justice, fairness and like to carry everybody along. “I am not surprised that he has told us to send two names to him to be appointed as his personal assistants. “I commend Ozioko for carrying everybody along as well as given the group a sense of belonging,” he said. Ozioko said, as a lawyer, he is ready anytime to use his profession to defend any member of PWD who is oppressed or maltreated by an individual or group.