This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. ■ Says May 30 sit-at-home sacrosanct Okey Sampson, Aba   Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has condemned Ohanaeze Ndigbo over its recently held summit in which the apex Igbo organization called for the restructuring of the country among others. In a statement signed by Ikechukwu Nnaji, the pro-Biafra group taunted the apex Igbo group for calling for the restructuring of the country, an indication says it has the interest of Nigeria at heart instead of concerning itself with the disappearance of one of her illustrious sons, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu since last year. IPOB said by their action, leaders of Ohanaeze have joined the Nigerian government in labeling one of their promising and innocent young men a terrorist. According to the group, “It is shameful that the so called leaders of Ohanaeze will gather people in Awka, Anambra to talk about restructuring of Nigeria which has no bearing with the people’s clamour for Biafra; instead of talking about the disappearance and whereabouts of one of their illustrious sons, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu.” IPOB reminded Ohanaeze that it could not have had the platform to talk about restructuring if not for the bold steps Kanu took to demand for Biafra due to the chronic marginalisation of the South east in Nigeria. The group noted that it was unfortunate that instead of aligning with Kanu to actualise Biafra, the leadership of Ohanaeze in collaboration with South east governors betrayed him by aiding the Federal Government to declare IPOB a terrorist organization. “That the Nigerian government ever spoke of restructuring that has emboldened Ohanaeze was as a result of Nnamdi Kanu’s actions. But the so-called Ohanaeze Ndi Igbo feeling it will be wrong for Kanu to take the credit of the emancipation of the Igbo race betrayed him.” The group said it was only Kanu who understood that the current Nigerian structure would never guarantee Igbo their due entitlements in the Nigerian polity, adding that without the entire race giving him support, the Igbo would continue to be subservient to others. Meanwhile, the group in a separate statement by Emma Powerful has said that its May 30 sit-at-home order is sacrosanct and shall be observed annually. “30th of May 2018 will witness a total lock-down of South East, South South and selected states and cities across Nigeria. Not only will our heroes and heroines of the class of 67-70 be honored in the finest traditions of IPOB, other victims of sectarian violence, herdsmen, Boko Haram and state sponsored extra judicial killings will also be remembered. A two minute silence will be observed at 12 noon on the 30th to ponder and reflect upon the courage and patriotism of the brave men, and women that willingly sacrificed their lives to preserve what is left of our race today. We must remember, reflect and ponder over the pain and suffering of over 1 million innocent Biafran children deliberately starved to death by the Nigerian government as a result of an evil policy to wipe out an entire race of people from the face of the earth. The sit-at-home order entails no human or vehicular movement anywhere around Biafraland from 6pm on the evening of the 29th of May to 6pm on the 30th. All road journeys should be terminated at exactly 6pm on the 29th. Any vehicle seen on the road after 6pm on the 29th of May will be regarded as a mark of disrespect and treated as an enemy of the Biafran people because 30th of May every year is a designated public holiday across Biafraland. Only ambulance and those responding to emergencies are allowed on the roads. No living being should be seen outside on the 30th of May because it is the most important date in the calendar of our people and shall remain so forever and ever.”