This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. By Chinenye Anuforo The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has commended leading telecommunications services provider, Airtel Nigeria, for its relentless support towards the less privileged Nigerians, describing the telco as a role model to all. The governor who was speaking during the premiere of the 6th edition of the company’s ‘Airtel Touching Lives’ programme during the weekend in Lagos, lauded Airtel for being an example to individuals and organizations. “Airtel is leading as an example for individuals and institutions. They have exhibited the true Lagosian spirit of working in unity, by joining the Government in raising a sustainable nation…. Therefore, as individuals and organizations, let us also make efforts to reach out and empower the less privileged as Airtel is doing,” said the governor who was represented by the Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Mr. Sam Egube. Mrs. Bamidele Abiodun, wife of the governor of Ogun state, who was also present at the event, lauded Airtel’s efforts in providing relief for the vulnerable and sustaining a robust campaign to encourage other organizations to embrace philanthropy. “I would encourage Airtel to keep doing what they do as well as expand the Airtel Touching Lives programme for an increased impact. I would like to implore Airtel and other entities to keep sharing these inspiring stories for the world to emulate. I am proud to be associated with Airtel Touching Lives, and I look forward to partnering with Airtel” Also speaking at the event, Former Chairman, First Bank Nigeria Plc, Ibukun Awosika thanked Airtel for going the extra mile to take a bit of the burden away from some hardworking Nigerians through its CSR Initiative.” A beneficiary of Airtel Touching Lives Season 5, who survived a ghastly accident that damaged his urinary tract until Airtel intervened by supporting him with N8,000,000 (Eight Million Naira) for corrective surgery in the United Kingdom, commended Airtel for giving him a second chance at life. He said, “I have always heard about stories like this on Television and Radio, but I never knew such an opportunity would come to my doorstep for free. Airtel gave me a second chance without wanting anything in return.” Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Airtel Nigeria, Surendran Chemmenkotil, while speaking on the track record of the initiative said Airtel Touching Lives has not only recorded milestones but has offered real help to individuals, communities, groups, and institutions since the launch of the initiative. “In Season 6, Airtel Nigeria has helped to rebuild a dream, a life, a hospital. We helped children rebuild their confidence, get an education, and we tested millions for COVID. We turned tears of sadness into tears of Joy.” In his closing remark, he further encouraged other corporate entities as well as well-spirited individuals to join hands in improving the society, as collaboration to solve societal problems can make a huge difference, and if the privileged people continue to support the needy, society will excel and triumph at a quicker pace. Airtel Touching Lives takes the format of a reality television show, allowing the public to nominate causes, communities, and underprivileged persons/people with special needs. Airtel thereafter evaluates and selects the causes to support, and the activities are filmed and broadcasted on terrestrial and satellite television stations with the aim of inspiring other corporate organizations as well as well-meaning individuals to join in supporting the weak across society.