This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Paul Osuyi, Asaba As the raging debate on zoning of the presidency in 2023 continues to occupy national discourse, foremost human rights activist, Senator Shehu Sani has declared that northern politicians were ready to cede power to the south. Although the main opposition party, People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has already thrown the contest for it’s ticket open, the All Progressive Congress (APC) has not decided on where to zone it’s ticket. Speaking in Asaba, Delta State at a seminar organised by Asaba Correspondent Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Sani said it was likely that a northerner would pick the ticket of the PDP. Sani noted that the ruling APC was only playing a cat and mouse game with PDP, adding that if a northerner picks the ticket of the opposition party, the APC may likely to follow suit. Senator Sani however advised the ruling party to honour it’s words if there was any agreement that there would be power transfer to the south in 2023. He said politicians can’t continue to accept the principle of federal character and at the same time, kick against zoning. “APC is playing cat and mouse game with PDP. If the opposition fields a northern candidate, APC will field a northerner. “This is because of the belief that the poorest of the poor in the north vote according the dictates of their leaders. That is the sentiment. “The unity in the north is not in the south. The North-East, North-West and North-Central will vote for a northern candidate, but it is not so in the south. “APC is afraid of zoning their ticket to the south because if they do so, and a northerner emerges PDP flag bearer, the ruling party may lose the presidential election,” Sani stated. He added that if the opposition party was really desirous of taking over power, it should avoid internal bickering, and unite as a force, take advantage of the appalling situation in the country to articulate it’s points. “For PDP, whoever emerges, after the presidential primary, the party has a duty to rally round him to rescue this country,” he added.