This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Gyang Bere, Jos The Northern Governors’ Forum has condemned the murder of Deborah Samuel Yakubu, a student of Shehu Shagari College of Education Sokoto who was killed on allegation of blasphemy. Also, the Fellowship of Churches of Christ in Nigeria, known as (Tarayyar Ekklesiyoyin Kristi a Nijeria) (TEKAN) condemned the evil act and described it as a shocking and terrible tragedy. Chairman of the Northern Governors’ Forum and Governor of Plateau State Simon Bako Lalong said in a statement that the governors were concerned about the development which is clearly an extra-Judicial measure of addressing perceived infractions. Lalong said any attempt to adopt self-help in addressing grievances whether religious or otherwise, will only lead to further chaos that could threaten law and order as well as the general peace and security of the society. While commiserating with the family of the victim, Lalong said the Northern Governors want security agencies to be allowed to thoroughly investigate the matter and ensure that the law takes its full course on anyone found wanting. The Northern Governors also appealed for calm following reports of the hijack of a peaceful protest which later turned violent and led to the imposition of a curfew in Sokoto metropolis. Lalong extended the support and commiserations of the Forum to Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State over the incident as well as praised his proactive efforts to restore normalcy. They assured him of their solidarity and prayers in dealing with the matter as well as ensuring that all necessary measures are taken to forestall future occurrence in any part of the region and nation at large. The Forum also reminds citizens of the region and Nigerians of the need to continue to show love, tolerance and respect for one another irrespective of faith, ethnicity or other affiliations. Meanwhile, TEKAN in a statement by the President, Rev. Caleb S. Ahima and General Secretary, Very Rev. Moses J. Ebuga said the irreligious dastardly act must not be tolerated at all. “TEKAN Executive Council during its meeting at the Headquarters on 12th May 2022, received with rude shock the terribly tragic event of the gruesome murder of Ms Deborah Samuel, a 200 Level home economics student at the Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto for allegedly committing blasphemy. “We condemn this inhuman act in totality and in the strongest terms possible. We call on the Nigeria Authorities to act decisively to bring those who committed this criminal act to face the full wrath of the law regardless of whoever is involved. “This irreligious dastardly act must not be tolerated at all. Recalling past incidents where those who committed similar criminal acts go free, TEKAN calls upon the expected security agencies and the Federal Government to do the needful to ensure justice is done. The perpetrators should be dealt with to serve as a deterrent for future occurrences. We call on our members not to take the law into their hands but allow the authorities to act swiftly and appropriately. “TEKAN extends deepest condolences to the family of Ms Deborah Samuel and her entire community and calls on all its members to be fervent in prayers for justice and peace in our land.”