Magnus Eze, Enugu Former Abia State governor, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, has said 19 years of uninterrupted democratic rule is a huge achievement for Nigeria. Speaking in Enugu, capital of Enugu State, yesterday, shortly after he observed the morning Mass with Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Kalu said almost two decades without military incursion is enough reason for Nigerians to celebrate. “We have done very well as a democratic country. We have not had any military intervention and I believe that we have a lot to offer; we have a lot to do and we have a lot to position. “It is not just easy to talk about democracy; where we are today could have been more fruitful democratically, we might have made all the mistakes, made all the problems… We have had all the problems of herdsmen, IPOB, militancy, Boko Haram; those are part of the growing processes; even the United States went through these problems when it was growing. So, we are thankful to God that we’ve remained a united and vibrant country which is indivisible. “We have made progress, even when people think we should be like Malaysia, Indonesia, and Singapore. Yes, it is true, but, we are Africans. “There are impediments because the Western countries have perpetually left us with debts; the Western countries have also perpetually left us with high interest rates; Nigeria has no business in having high interest rate.” The former governor applauded President Muhammadu Buhari for his Democracy Day broadcast which he said rekindled the hope of Nigerians and further reiterated the president’s belief and commitment to a united country. “I honestly want to thank our president for his speech on uniting Nigeria… “I want to thank him for his sincerity of purpose. I want to thank him because he is committed in uniting this country, despite all obstacles,” stated Kalu. On why he visited a People’s Democratic Party (PDP) governor, the businessman said “politics is not enmity” and urged politicians to imbibe the spirit politics without bitterness, as according him, the ultimate objective of politicking should be the well-being of Nigeria and Nigerians. Elsewhere, Kalu, during his Enugu trip, also paid condolence visit to ex-chairman of Board of the National Hospital, Abuja, Dr. Tony Okam, over the recent death of his mother.