This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Concern citizens of Enugu State in the Diaspora, Scotland branch, has called on Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi to ensure the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, produces a candidate that is corruptfree or never had a case to answer before the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). In a statement jointly signed by  the Chairman, Chief Daniel Anike, Vice Chairman, Dr. Peter Ugwu and Secretary, Dr. Helen Agbo, the group said the PDP must ensure a credible and acceptable candidate emerges during primary.  The statement read in part: “We have uncovered a sinister plot by the opposition party to frustrate and create political chaos in the PDP by harassing any candidate with a corruption tag that emerges from the PDP. The publication accusing a number of PDP aspirants in Enugu of corruption is the first step in this grand plot…  “Having been tagged as aspirants with corrupt cases, should any of these mentioned candidate emerge, the opposition plot is to get them arrested using federal authorities in a move that will damage the image of the candidate and the credibility of the party’s nominee. In a worst case scenario, cause internal crisis in Enugu PDP that will be worse than what happened in 2007 when Sullivan Chime’s running mate Sam Ejiofor was humiliated by the EFCC.  “This surprise arrest forced the PDP to scramble for a last minute alternative denying the party their first choice. For reference purpose, the Supreme Court squashed the Zamfara APC’s gubernatorial victory due to their inability to conduct an acceptable primary, based on compliance violations of electoral guidelines, the APC was disqualified.  If the EFCC have its way in Enugu, a PDP candidate suspected of corruption will be frustrated through the legal and investigative process as the level of corruption which these aspirants have been accused of may not enjoy the benefit of statute of limitations in the criminal code.”