This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Joe Effiong, Uyo A veteran politicians, Otuekong Inibehe Okori, has joined the file aspirants fighting for the Akwa Ibom North West (Ikot Ekpene) Senatorial district on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), saying his aspiration is hinged on going to make good laws for the smooth running of the country. Okori, who stated this on Wednesday while interacting with members of the correspondents chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Akwa Ibom state Council, said only good laws would promote good governance and peaceful coexistence, adding that anything contrary can only breeds disunity. Okori recently who recently returned to the PDP after he had left to sojourn some other political parties including APC but he said having returned to the party he would also ensure that his senatorial district and Akwa Ibom State in general is well empowered. “The primary responsibility of a lawmaker is the make laws for the country. For things to go well in the country, there must be good laws in place. “My aspiration to contest is borne our of the need to make laws for the smooth running and good governance of our country Nigeria and Akwa Ibom State in particular. “I will also ensure that our people are empowered and not discriminated against in terms of employment and appointments” He described the press as a critical segement in the Nigeria democratic process, adding that members of the press have put their lives on the line since the political evolution of Nigeria He said ” In Akwa Ibom, i think we have gotten the best of the press. The press has done very well in Nigeria and the World. Look at what is happening in Ukraine, the journalists have put their lives on the line. “My mission tonight is to inform you that I am running for the office of the Senate of the federal republic of Nigeria, representing Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial district. Most of you who are familiar with me know that this is not a new terrain. “You will recalled that in 2014, i was in this mission, where I contested against the former governor of the State, iam sure most of you are in the picture. “Today, I’m coming for consultation, just to inform you that iam running for that office. I have consulted all the ten local government that make up the senatorial district” he said.