This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Uche Usim, Abuja The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) and the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS) are fine-tuning plans to develop cattle ranching and dairy processing factories in three states : Sokoto, Kano and Imo, under a Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement. To this end, the Director General of the BPE, Mr. Alex Okoh, has assured the NCoS of its willingness to deploy its expertise till the projects are realised. Also on the card are plans to develop agricultural farms in many other states across the federation; industrial entities and the correctional centres’ land swapping projects. Okoh gave the assurance during a courtesy visit to the Comptroller General of the NCoS, Mr Haliru Nababa, at the Service’s headquarters in Abuja on Wednesday. Okoh said: “BPE with more than 30 years experience in the reform and optimization of Federal Government’s assets through different strategies including concession, coupled with the  additional responsibility  that has been assigned to us  in the PPP space through the Federal Government’s  policy circular on the Administration of Concession in Nigeria, is ready to collaborate with the service actively by   offering  its technical expertise and experience  to ensure the successful execution and completion of the concession process for   the projects”. He commended the commitment and efforts of the CG and his team towards repositioning the NCoS into a strong, reliable and transformative institution through some of the laudable initiatives and projects being implemented by his leadership. According to him, the feedback from the Bureau team’s interfacing with the NCoS on the level of professionalism, commitment  and desire of the NCoS’ PPP Unit towards ensuring that some of the potential  projects of the service  across the different sectors of the economy, are developed and optimised by attracting private sector investment  through a robust and transparent PPP process, have been encouraging . He noted that the recent opening of responses to the Request for Qualifications (RfQ) issued by the Service for some of its projects, is a testimony to NCoS readiness and commitment to unlock values and optimise the potentials of those assets. In his response, the Comptroller General, Haliru Nababa, represented by the Deputy Comptroller General (DCG), Operations (Non-Custodial Duties), Mohammed A. Tukur, Commended the Bureau for its support and guide for the success of its PPP projects which include relocation/infrastructural development, agricultural development and industrial projects.