This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Gyang Bere, Jos The Equity and Justice Forum group in Plateau State has alleged that state governor Simon Lalong has hijacked forms for delegates’ election to install his preferred candidate ahead of the gubernatorial primaries. Chairman of the Forum Barr. Omar Shittien and Co-Chairman, Samu’ila Danko Makama raised the allegations during a press conference in Jos and insisted that APC will lose Plateau if Lalong and the APC leadership insist on imposing their favourite candidate against the wishes of the majority. He recalled that the state voted massively for APC in 2015 due to the imposition of a candidate by the then PDP administration and vowed to repeat the same if the APC refused to learn from the 2015 mistakes. “We got it on good authority that forms meant for delegates election have been hijacked for onward distribution to specific stooges to be used as delegates in the primary elections, to make it appear that the primaries are free and fair. “The preferential treatment given a particular candidate at the expense of all other governorship aspirants who have deployed their resources, time and energy since the onset of the APC and its victory in 2015 and 2019, and for its sustenance is a total show of ingratitude to them and their huge supporters.” The group cautioned the Governor against the act of imposition and tore the line of justice by allowing all aspirants access to delegates and level playing ground. “It is evident that the present administration and beneficiary of the Plateau Project appears not to appreciate the efforts of the good people of Plateau in combating injustice and undemocratic processes. Instead, we see anti-people policy and undemocratic processes playing out within the party. “It will amount to total hypocrisy, biases and injustice to Plateau State if the Equity and Justice Forum keep mute and watch nonchalantly a repeat of the vice and undemocratic process it fought against in 2014 and 2015.”