This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Fred Ezeh, Abuja A northern group, Arewa Transformational Leaders, said at the weekend, that it doesn’t support the conversation and position of some politicians that the Presidential ticket of major political parties in the next year general elections be zoned to a certain region of the country. The group, rather, suggested that the cause of merit which, they said, will ensure that competent persons, irrespective of religion, ethnic background or political affiliation emerge as President of Nigeria. National Chairman of Association, Alhaji Yusuf Ibrahim, told journalists at the end of their meeting in Abuja, at the weekend, that the loud conversation for zoning of the presidency in 2023 shouldn’t be at the centre conversation but seeking the right persons that would pull Nigeria out the dungeon of socioeconomic underdevelopment and backwardness. He said: “The discussion about zoning is an interesting one and it’s expected in this period because of lots of interest in the forthcoming general elections. However, we are encouraging everyone interested in any political position, irrespective of geopolitical zone and political party, to go out and exercise his or her franchise. “We are not party to the issues of zoning to the north or south because it has done us no good in the past. We have unanimously agreed to support political leaders include the President as long they are democratically elected by the people of Nigeria. Religion, tribe or political affiliation shouldn’t be a problem for us.” Alhaji Ibrahim, however, noted that their major focus is on steps that would promote peace and development of the north. “We are in for any cause that will promote mutual respect for both religions, Christianity and Islam, and guarantee peaceful co-existence in the north.” Reacting on the death of Christian student in Sokoto state, Deborah Samuel, Alhaji Ibrahim said, “the Sokoto incident was so unfortunate. The victim was a northerner and the act took place in the north. We are not happy with the situation but as an organization, we will do everything legally possible to ensure that peace and sanity is restored in the affected communities and other parts of the north.” He, however, solicited the support of members of the organization to the new leadership of the organization to ensure that they succeed in their quest to the make the north a better place to live and do business.