From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has urged  governors of the  All Progressive Congress (APC) that he wants to enjoy the same privileges as they by picking his successor for the 2023 Presidential Elections. Buhari said this when he had audience with the 22 Governors and the National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. According to him, in a paragraph part of his speech posted by  Senior Special Assistant for Public Affairs in the Presidency, Ajuri Ngelale, on his Twitter @AjuriNgelale but not captured in the official statement released by Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, Buhari said he would like to be accorded the same privilege already given to first term governors to return and second term governors to pick their Successors. Buhari said: “Second term Governors have been accorded the privilege of promoting successors that are capable of driving their visions as well as the ideals of the party. “…In keeping with the established internal policies of the Party and as we approach the Convention in a few days, therefore, I wish to solicit the reciprocity and support of the Governors and other stakeholders in picking my successor, who would fly the flag of our party for election into the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2023.“ The President said as he begins the final year of his second term as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and leader of the  ruling, he would provide stronger leadership to the party under the transition process and ensure that it happens in an orderly manner. He has charged the Progressives Governors to ensure that the forthcoming convention to pick a presidential candidate reflects all the values and virtues of the party. According to him, the outcome should prove to the world, the positive quality of the APC regarding democratic principles, culture as well as leadership. He added the choice of candidate in the forthcoming primaries must be someone who would give the Nigerian masses a sense of victory and confidence even before the elections. According to a statement by Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, Buhari said: “The processes for the 2023 General Elections have commenced in earnest and I note that the most successful political parties globally have always relied on their internal cohesion and a strong leadership brand to achieve bigger electoral fortunes. Our party, the APC, shall not be any different, more so as we are still implementing the blueprint for a more prosperous nation. “As I begin the final year of my second term as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and leader of the party, I recognize the compelling need for me to provide stronger leadership to the party under this transition process and to ensure that it happens in an orderly manner. “Such leadership is required so that the party remains strong and united. It is also needed to improve our electoral fortunes by ensuring that it retains power at the center, hold the great majority  in various legislative chambers and also gain additional number of states. “In a few days, the party will be holding its Convention during which primaries would take place to pick the Presidential Flag Bearer for the 2023 General Elections. This is a very significant process and its outcome should prove to the world, the positive quality of the APC regarding democratic principles, culture as well as leadership.” The President appealed to all the Governors “to allow our interests to converge, our focus to remain on the changing dynamics of our environment, the expectations of our citizens  and the global community. Our objective must be the victory of our party and our choice of candidate must be someone who would give the Nigerian masses a sense of victory and confidence even before the elections.” President Buhari assured that the consultation process will continue, to ensure that all aspirants and stakeholders would be brought on board right through to the convention, stressing that it would also ensure that any anxiety occasioned by different factors are effectively brought under control, “and that our party emerges stronger.” Speaking on behalf of the States’ helmsmen, Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State, and Chairman of Progressive Governors Forum said the party must build on successes of its recent elective convention, and the primaries conducted so far, “ and come up with a candidate who will walk in the footsteps of patriotism and love for the country, which Mr President has shown.” “We will support Mr President to have a very successful convention,” he pledged. The full text released by a top official present at the meeting is reproduced below: ADDRESS BY HIS EXCELLENCY, MUHAMMADU BUHARI, PRESIDENT, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA, TO THE PROGRESSIVE GOVERNORS’ FORUM AT THE CONSULTATIVE MEETING HELD AT THE PRESIDENTIAL VILLA, ABUJA, ON TUESDAY, 31ST MAY, 2022 PROTOCOLS I am delighted to address this gathering of the Progressive Governors’ Forum as part of the consultative processes that have always strengthened the internal dynamics of our Party, the All Progressives Congress, (APC). 2. You will all recall that APC came to power at the center in 2015 through a cohesive machinery, notwithstanding its status as the opposition party. Similarly, in 2019, it was returned to power under my leadership, because of the dividends of democracy delivered to Nigerians irrespective of their political leanings. 3. The Party has since grown in strength and capacity to govern. The key to both electoral successes is the ability of the party to hold consultations and for its members to put the nation above other interests. 4. The transition processes for the 2023 General Elections have commenced in earnest and I note that the most successful Political Parties globally have always relied on their internal cohesion and a strong leadership brand to achieve bigger electoral fortunes. Our party, the APC, shall not be any different, more so as we are still implementing the blueprint for a more prosperous nation. 5. As I begin the final year of my second term as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and leader of the Party, I recognize the compelling need for me to provide stronger leadership to the Party under this transition process and to ensure that it happens in an orderly manner. 6. Such leadership is required so that the Party remains strong and united. It is also needed to improve our electoral fortunes by ensuring that it retains power at the center, hold the great majority  in various legislative chambers and also gain additional number of states at state levels.   7. In pursuit of the foregoing objectives, the Party has successfully established internal policies that promote continuity and smooth succession plans even at the state and local government levels. For example, first term Governors who have served credibly well have been encouraged to stand for re-election. Similarly, second term Governors have been accorded the privilege of promoting successors that are capable of driving their visions as well as the ideals of the party. 8. In a few days, the Party will be holding its Convention during which primaries would take place to pick the Presidential Flag Bearer for the 2023 General Elections. This is a very significant process and its outcome should prove to the world, the positive quality of the APC regarding democratic principles, culture as well as leadership. 9. As we approach the Convention, I appeal to all of you to allow our interests to converge, our focus to remain on the changing dynamics of our environment, the expectations of our citizens  and the global community. Our objective must be the victory of our party and our choice of candidate must be someone who would give the Nigerian masses a sense of victory and confidence even before the elections. 10. In keeping with the established internal policies of the Party and as we approach the Convention in a few days, therefore, I wish to solicit the reciprocity and support of the Governors and other stakeholders in picking my successor, who would fly the flag of our party for election into the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2023. 11. I wish to assure you that the consultation process shall continue to ensure that all aspirants and stakeholders would be brought on board right through to the convention. This would also ensure that any anxiety occasioned by different factors are effectively brought under control and that our party emerges stronger. 12. I thank you all for listening. God bless you all. God bless our Party, the APC and God bless our nation, Nigeria.