This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From John Adams, Minna A brave commercial driver on Sunday morning ran into a group of gunmen along Minna-Mutundaya highway and crushed three of them to death and managed to escape. The gunmen who had arrived Mutundaya community, about 20 kilometers from Minna, the Niger state capital, in their large numbers, block the major road while they attack the people in their houses, dispossessing them of their properties including animals. The gunmen had earlier killed a man and a woman in another commercial vehicle when the driver tried to escape. It was gathered that the brave driver ram into the gunmen who trying to stop him, killing three of them on the stop and managed to escape. However according to police source, some of the bandits were also killed when the Joint Security TaskForce was mobilized to the scene. According to a statement by the Police Relation Officer, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, “information was received that suspected armed bandits were sighted at Zazagha and injita villages of Munya local government area and the Joint security tactical team was immediately drafted to the area, and discovered that the bandits had divided themselves into different groups, as some of the bandits had moved to Fuka and Daza villages of Munya local government area. “The tactical teams advanced to these areas where the hoodlums were fiercely engaged in gun battle and repelled”, adding that the hoodlums later extended to Gwalo village, Kafin Koro community in Paikoro, local government area and the joint team responded swiftly, and swoop on them, leading to the recovery of cattle from the bandits In addition to this, he said a reinforcements were sent to Mutun-Daya village, via Gwada, Shiroro local government upon the receipt of information that another group of bandits were sighted in the area. “The bandits were equally engaged in gun duel and some of them were neutralized, while others escaped into the forest with gun shot injuries”