This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The National Action Committee on African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCTA) said it has begun the development of policies in partnership with relevant export agencies  for free flow of trade in Nigeria. Mr Ogo Chukwura, the Team Lead Export market development, National Action Committee (NAC), said  this in an  interview on Monday in Abuja. He said  that infrastructure development  was imperative  to the operating environment of business and a key driver  for cost. According to him, the policies will  bring together ministries, departments and agencies  that have a role in supporting the growth of trade in the country. Chukwura said the Commitee was also identifying  the opportunities   and developing strategies to  help boost trade. He also said the committee was  partnering the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment to develop a programme that would allow agricultural produce move seamlessly from points A to B. “We have engaged  agencies such as the NIPC, NNPC, NEXIM and core institutions based on the over-all vision and strategy set up to identify the cross-over between the roles of agencies and coordinate to increase ease of doing business for SMEs. “We are also partnering  with the Ministry of Tourism and other stakeholders to ensure  security .  It is essential to ensure Nigeria is safe or at least tourist sites are safe so as to benefit from foreign exchange. “We have  identified and mapped  out the goals, opportunities and challenges while working to proffer solutions for challenges. “Our focus rests on creating projects and programmes that can reduce cost, increase efficiency and increase the capacity of SMEs to trade and be competitive,” he said. According to him,   power  availability  for businesses is essential  and they  are working with relevant  ministries and stakeholders to find out sources of power that can  be made available to business communities. He added that negotiations were on-going to ensure pricing was  kept within the capacity for  business owners to pay. He said the commitee was working with relevant ministries to engage on logistics in produce of business owners for effective service delivery.