This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. NAN Former members of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC)  appear to be spoiling for a fight, with breakup imminent, as they issued a seven-day ultimatum, asking the party to address their complaints of marginalisation. Their letter which was addressed to the National chairman of the APC, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, was signed by by Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje, former National Chairman of the former PDP bloc and Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, the group’s former National Secretary. Both signatories are known to be lukewarm to the alliance put together in 2014, with Oyinlola openly rejecting a board appointment and teaming up with Olusegun Obasanjo’s national coalition movement and Baraje being accused by APC members in Kwara state of being anti-Buhari. With the tone of the letter, the political bloc may just be preparing the ground to break away. The group accused the ruling APC of marginalising its members in cabinet positions, board appointments and working to block the emergence of Yakubu Dogara and Bukola Saraki as Speaker and Senate president in 2015. The group also listed five other sins committed against them by the APC, among them the lack of consultation of their members in decision making and the harassment of their members, which was not substantiated. They thus gave Chief John Oyegun, seven days to respond and arrange a meeting. “Given the constraining factor of available time and in the interest of our great Party, it is strongly advised that the said urgent meeting be held not later than Seven (7) days from the date of the receipt of this letter,” the letter read.   Here is the text of the letter:   TEXT OF THE LETTER The National Chairman All Progressives Congress (APC) National Headquarters Abuja. REQUEST FOR REDRESSING OF GRIEVANCES OF THE FORMER NEW PDP BLOCK WITHIN THE ALL PROGRESSIVES CONGRESS (APC) We the members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who moved over from the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to form the APC before the 2015 General Elections in Nigeria are desirous of strengthening our party especially now that new party Congresses have commenced and the Convention and another round of General Elections are imminent. Obviously, this cannot be achieved without addressing fundamental issues which we wish to raise in this letter. We therefore wish, with due respect, to re-state our expectation then and now that the APC we all laboured to build would be one united, inclusive, cohesive and progressive party devoid of divisions, factions, cleavages and tendencies. We envisioned a political party promoting equal rights for all Nigerians and ensuring rapid and even development across the country. Of course there is no gainsaying the fact that the lofty ideals enumerated above cannot be attained without ensuring justice for party faithful and citizens. (a) In the constitution of the Federal Executive Council, (FEC) the New PDP block was generally sidelined as virtually no position was conceded to it. The only member of FEC that belonged to former New PDP block comes from a State that contributed virtually no vote to the APC in the 2015 presidential elections. (b) There has been no significant patronage and appointments to executive positions in various government agencies such as Chief Executives and Executive Directors of government agencies and parastatals as members of our block of the party continue to helplessly watch as these positions are shared by the erstwhile CPC, ACN, ANPP and even APGA blocks of the party and those who have no party at all. (c) In appointments into boards of various government agencies, very few former New PDP members were patronised. These are however not commensurate with our contributions to the growth and victory of the party. (d) When members of the former New PDP block showed interest in running for the offices of President of the Senate and Speaker of the House of Representatives, they were subjected to a vicious and relentless political opposition as if they were not legitimate members of the APC family. (e) During the party primaries preparatory to the 2015 General Elections, most of the promises made to sitting members of the National Assembly, who belonged to the former new PDP in terms of a level playing field were reneged upon or observed more in breach. (f) There has been general lack of consultation, non recognition and even persecution of former New PDP members and leaders by the party and government. For example, some of our leaders are denied the security cover necessary to visit their constituencies even though they are elected representatives of the people in a government they sacrificed so much for. (g) Harassment, intimidation and persecution of former New PDP leaders by the government, is still an ongoing affair. We do not want to overstate the obvious by cataloguing names of former new PDP stalwarts that are targets of this political pogrom. (h) There is inadequate reflection of programme and policy contributions of members of the former New PDP block in the running of the government. For and on behalf of the former New PDP Block of APC: Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje (CON), former National Chairman (nPDP) Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, former National Secretary (nPDP)