This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Scottish Premiership hockey star, Molly Godfrey, has confessed she dated Super Eagles star, Calvin Bassey when he arrived in Scotland from England a couple of years ago. Bassey arrived at Glasgow Rangers as a relatively unknown player from Leicester City reserves, having not played a single senior game for the Foxes. But the Nigerian international has grown into a global star in recent weeks after a series of incredible performances in the Europa League, including in Rangers’ final penalty defeat to Eintracht Frankfurt. While Bassey is confident and assured on the pitch at centre-back, left full-back, and wingback, his ex-girlfriend Molly reveals a different side to the tireless 22-year-old. Molly, who plays hockey internationally for Scotland, discloses with light-hearted fun that Bassey is a bit shy off the field, a terrible singer, and a clueless dancer. But the 25-year-old online coach is quick to add that the Rangers defender is a great person who gave her a good time from the moment he slid into her DM on Instagram to when they started mutually.  “He’s a really lovely boy who had big dreams to play with Rangers and break into the first team,” Molly told the Sun.  “Calvin and I used to love just having a laugh together and people may or may not know this but he is a terrible singer and even worse dancer – which made him even funnier.  “He’s not your typical footballer as he was a bit shy around new people.  “But all of my friends loved him too, as he always had a big smile on his face and was just great fun to be around.” The Scottish hockey star adds: “We slowly grew apart and I decided to go on Geordie Shore and he decided to focus on his football, therefore, we decided to part ways mutually.  “I think he’s a great asset to Scottish football with an incredible future at his fingertips.  “He is a true diamond of a boy. Anyone would be lucky to be with him.” There are bigger things ahead for Bassey after man of the match performances in both the Europa League and Scottish Cup finals.