This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The Civil Defence, Correctional, Fire and Immigration Services Board (CDCFIB) has approved the promotion of 226 top management officers in the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS), Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). In a statement signed by the Secretary to the Board, Hajia Rufai Ahmed, the board claimed that the promotion is strictly based on merit. Giving a breakdown of the specific agencies, the board in a statement, disclosed that while 56 Correctional officers benefitted, 98 Immigration officers are also beneficiaries, just as 63 Civil Defence officers got promoted to a higher rank. Titled; “the Board approves the promotion of top management officers under its purview”, the statement read: “the Civil Defence Correctional Fire and Immigration Services Board (CDCFIB) has approved the promotion of 226 top management officers in the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS), Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). “The breakdown is as follows: NCoS; 23 Officers to the rank of Assistant Controller General of Corrections (ACG) 43 Officers to the rank of Controller of Corrections (CC). “NIS, four Officers to the rank of Deputy Comptroller-General of Immigration (DCGI), 24 Officers to the rank of Assistant Comptroller General of Immigration (ACGI) 70 Officers to the rank of Comptroller of Immigration (CIS). “In NSCDC, five Officers to the rank of Deputy Commandant General of Corps (DCG) 22 Officers to the rank of Assistant Commandant General of Corps (ACG) 35 Officers to the rank of Commandant of Corps (CC). “The promotion results were approved by the Board on Thursday 19th of May 2022 taking cognizance of merit and other considerations such as Federal Character Principle. “The Chairman enjoined the newly promoted officers to continue to contribute their quota towards achieving their respective mandates and ensuring internal security,” the board noted in the statement.