This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Jonathan Foundation calls for defence of journalism against attack   From Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa The Goodluck Jonathan Foundation (GJF),has called on governments and  citizens to make commitments towards the defence of journalism and journalists from attacks  as the world  celebrates  press freedom day. Communications Officer of the Foundation, Wealth Dickson Ominabo in a news statement said the theme of this year’s celebration: “Journalism under digital siege”, highlights the challenges of contemporary media practice in an era of digital technology. According to Ominabo, GJF notes that despite the obvious benefits associated with digital technology in our society, it has exposed citizens to new forms of tyranny and   violence. It therefore called on stakeholders to defend journalism from all forms of repression and urged  media professionals to uphold media ethics in the discharge of their duties  and ensure that information is used for public good at all times. The statement read in part: On the occasion of   World Press Freedom Day 2022, The Goodluck Jonathan Foundation (GJF) celebrates  Nigerian  journalists and other media stakeholders  across Africa who bear the burden of information dissemination and continue to use information as a means to promote good governance and accountability in our nations. “The theme for this year: “Journalism under digital siege,” highlights the challenges of contemporary media practice in this era of digital technology; which has created new forms of tyranny and theatres of violence and in our nations. “Digital technology, despite its benefit of democratising access to information, has also exposed citizens to undue violence and unwarranted censorship by state and non-state actors. “As we celebrate, we call on governments and citizens to defend journalism against attacks as well as commit to protecting journalism and journalists from all threats in our societies. We also urge media professionals to live up to their responsibilities; uphold media ethics and ensure that information is used for public good at all times.”