This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From: Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa A Non-Governmental Organisation monitoring operations in the nation’s oil and gas industry, the Transparency in Petroleum Exploration and Development Initiative, (TIPEDI), has said that ongoing review of organizational structure and competency assessment of staff will bring efficiency and better service delivery in the operations of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB). TIPEDI which said the current management led by the Executive Secretary, Engr. Simbi Wabote, has shown a lot of promise, with these innovations, added that it is expected that at the end of the process, a more efficient regulatory and content development organisation that can meet high expectations of key players in the oil and gas sector will be built. In a statement issued in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, by the Secretary of TIPEDI, Dr. Michael Amaegberi, the group said the engagement of a world class Professional Service Company, KPMG, to conduct the review of Human Resource processes, Organization structure and Competency test, was a clear testimony of a desire to raise the quality of service of the Board. The NGO therefore commended all staff and particularly top management officers for submitting themselves to the recently completed competency test to identify their Competency Profile, based on knowledge, skills, ability and behavior/ attitude required to function at the optimum. The statement read in part “Some of the ongoing reforms in NCDMB, including welfare issues were inherited by the new E.S, Engr. Wabote and it is instructive to note that he has not shied away from undertaking the various exercises that are necessary to restore sanity in the work environment, in line with the change agenda of the Buhari administration and the public service rules”. “The review of organisational structure, we understand will help define clearly, departments and units and requirement for officers to occupy various positions”. “Also, after the exercise, the Board will be able to determine where additional manpower will be needed, as the process will encourage promotion of existing staff and the employment of new ones to fill vacant positions after the Board would’ve identified where there are capacity deficiencies”.