This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Lateef Dada, Osogbo Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, Sunday, said the confidence reposed in him by the people of the state assured him of victory in the July 16 governorship election. He said that his love for the masses, passion for their welfare and the development of the state are some of the reasons people want him to be re-elected. Oyetola stated this during N30 million fund raising ceremony organized by the Ebira Community in Osogbo, on Sunday. Represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Hon. Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, Oyetola, who stressed that with support of the masses, he was confident of victory, said campaign of calumny by the opposition parties would not stop his re-election. The governor said that since the inception of his administration, he had embarked on series of developmental projects as well as prompt payment of salaries and pensions. Oyetola also said that his administration was aware of the importance of security and social stability as the fundamental purpose for which the government was instituted and has lived up to that responsibility since becoming governor. He said “since the inception of our administration, concerted efforts have been centred on fortifying the state security architecture through the establishment of security Joint Taskforce to complement the mainstream security agencies in preventing crimes in the state. “To further exhibit our administration’s commitment to security of lives and property, 360 persons were recruited into the state Amotekun with the procurement of 20 security vehicles and several communication gadgets to support them in the discharge of their responsibility. “More than 750 vigilantes groups were also recuited in all the local government areas of the state to solidify the state security network.” Oyetola said that the electorate, who massively elected him 2018, could attest to his resounding achievements in the area of infrastructure, education, health care delivery, empowerment, social intervention and other critical areas of development. He assured that he would not betray the trust of the people,when re-elected, urged the electorate not to allow those who lack basic of knowledge of governance to deceive them. The governor also urged members of the Ebira community to continue to live in peace with their host communities. Oyetola said peaceful coexistence would bring stability and enhance national economic growth and development. The governor further said that an atmosphere of peaceful coexistence and harmonious relationship between the government and the governed was needed for growth and development. The governor, however, appealed to registered electorate, who are yet to collect their Permanent Voter Cards to do so and support him during the July 16 poll. The governor also appealed to the Ebira Community to support his re-election in the forthcoming governorship election, so as to enable him consolidate on the achievements of the past years. However, in recognition of his good leadership style, an award of excellence was presented to Oyintiloye by the Ebira community at the event. In his remarks, the president of the group, Shaibu Abere, commended the governor for his love for the non-indigene, which had made Osun a peaceful state without intertribal conflicts. Abere stated that their businesses had been thriving well due to prompt payment of workers’ salaries, as civil servants formed bulk of their patrons. He also commended the governor for various developmental projects across the state, adding that the group would continue to live peacefully with other tribes and also support the governor for for his re-election.