This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. By Chukwudi Nweje Presidential aspirant on the platform of the Social democratic Party (SDP), Adewole Adebayo, has joined his voice in the condemnation of the murder of Deborah Samuel Yakubu, a student of Shehu Shagari College of Education Sokoto, and the ripple affects it triggered in the Seat of the Caliphate state. Deborah was killed on allegation of blasphemy. Adebayo said what is going on in Sokoto State demands that leadership step up to the occasion “find the truth, do justice and unite the people”, even as he called for the passing and enforcement of strict laws to prohibit “hate and lawlessness.” He said, “In a moment of crisis such as we have in Sokoto, the role of leadership is to understand the issues, find the truth, do justice and unite the people. We now understand the issue to be an inexcusable murder in reaction to religious provocation founded on ignorance and intolerance. What must we do? We must condemn unlawful killing no matter the passion invoked. We cannot afford a failed state. We must educate our citizens about own religious traditions and beliefs and those of others in same society to avoid the dire effects of ignorance and intolerance. “We must stipulate laws and enforce them to combat hate and lawlessness. Justice must be done and be seen to be done in all cases not just for the victim of today but for the overall safety and health of all because perpetrators of today can be victims tomorrow. We must speak up.” He warned against people turning the unfortunate incident of Sokoto into a religious or sectarian warfare and noted that there are only two sides to the incident, “law versus lawlessness”, and called on all stakeholders to join hands with the Sokoto State Government to restore peace. “We must avoid defaming all for the misdeeds of a few. We must not exploit anger and grief for any other motive than seeking justice and calming frayed nerves. We must not reignite age old disputes or expand cracks in our society. There are only two sides: law versus lawlessness. At this moment, let us not be Moslems or Christians, North or South, East or West. Let us be human and humane. Let us seek justice not revenge. Let us invoke the law with truth. Let us support the Sokoto State Government to restore order. Let us unite for justice not polarize. We in leadership should recognise the stubborn descent into habitual anarchy in our society and united, arrest it now. Lynching takes place nationwide on a daily basis. Unlawful killings and unexplained deaths pervade our land in all corners and law enforcement is a rarity. Once the victim has been buried and justice is being done, we must address growing intolerance in our land, hate speeches, altercations and provocations online and in real life. Mutual disrespect and gross insults targeted at identities and traditions must give way to civility”, he said.