This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Senate President and APC presidential aspirant, Ahmad Lawan, has refuted reports that he had withdraw from the presidential race to pursue another term in the Senate This is even as he encouraged his supporters not to entertain fear as he is working tirelessly to emerge the candidate of the APC. In a statement, yesterday, by the spokesperson of Ahmad Lawan Presidential Campaign Organisation, Iyke Ekeoma, Lawan clearly dismissed the possibility of running for another term in Yobe East senatorial district He described as mischief report that he has withdrawn from the race, noting that those who planted the report were jittery of his political popularity, regional acceptance and dominance in political space hence, they cooked the fake report to create confusion “Nigerians should ignore the sponsored lies by some aspirants to distract Lawan from his quest to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in the next presidential election. “Contrary to their unnecessary fabrications against the nationally accepted presidential ambition of Lawan, we restate for the pleasure of progressive Nigerians that the falsehood trending currently on social media that Lawan has dropped his ambition to run for another term in Yobe East senatorial zone is false. “It is understandable that Lawan’s entrance into the presidential race to compete against 25 other aspirants has become the major discussion as his entrance has changed the political dynamics of the nation. “The withdrawal report is mere handiwork of politicians who are intimidated by the experience of the Senate president and his massive gains in the last few days.  “The ambition to become the president of Nigeria after President Buhari is alive and Nigerians should be rest assured he is in the race to win and not just to answer aspirant.  All supporters of Lawan should not entertain fear as he is working tirelessly to emerge as APC candidate,” he said.