This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. By CHRISTY ANYANWU Curvy Latasha Ngwube is an all-round media girl and founder of ‘About That Curvy Life Collective’, a platform that held the audience spell bound at their maiden outing during the Heineken Lagos Fashion and Design Week (LFDW) 2016. The 2017 edition of the Lagos Design Fashion Week kicks off next week and About That Curvy Life Collective will be showcasing curvy women and chunky men on the runway. “Last year, all the brands we showed at the collective were about plus size brands but what I realized is that there are so many, Nigerian designers, who actually offer larger sizes and just don’t promote it, or are not readily available. This year, I have decided to incorporate more brands that offer both slimmer sizes and plus sizes. Our platform believes that the opportunity to look and feel your best should be all women and men without prejudice.” In this interview she talks about her favourites. Enjoy…. What’s your favourite colour? Orange. I like the colour because of its creativity and it is exciting. I love it. Favourite food? I love pasta. It is something I have loved since my childhood. It could be pasta with chicken or pasta and beef with tomatoes, anything. Favourite holiday spot? I love Lagos and Paris. Paris is so beautiful. It’s just a mix of everything. It is stylish and romantic as well, it’s the city of life. Favourite fashion accessories? I can’t say. I love dresses, shoes, bags, and jewelries. I also love a good, beautiful hairdo. Actually, you know what? If I have to choose any, I will pick sunglasses. I just love sunglasses. Favourite book? I would say the Holy Bible because it makes my spiritual life better. But talk about other books like ‘Mrs. Sullivan Is Getting Married’ authored by Marian King, an Irish author. She’s amazing. I actually love everything she has written. She is a feminist to the core and I love that about her. Favourite music? Do I have a favourite song? Not really. I have mood for different things. Sometimes, I am a hard-core die-hard rap fan, sometimes R&B, sometimes gospel music and sometimes bad romantic music. Favourite designers? No, I don’t have any. I love different brands for different reasons both Nigerian and international designers Favourite weather? I always prefer it cold to hot. Favourite car? If I say I have a favourite car now, in six months that car will be obsolete. It has to be Mercedes. Let me just say, whatever time I can afford it, it will be a state-of-the-art Mercedes Benz. Whatever is trending in Benz.