This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Chelsea extended their unbeaten start to the Premier League season to 10 games with a statement-making 4-0 victory over Burnley at Turf Moor on Sun day. The Blues proved that they could cope without injured talisman Eden Hazard as four different scorers stepped up to send them above Manchester City into second. Ross Barkley contributed a goal and an assist as he became the first Englishman to score in three successive league games for Chelsea since Frank Lampard in 2013. Burnley made a bright start and there were some uncertain moments in the Chelsea defence as Kepa Arrizabalaga and David Luiz struggled with aerial balls into Sam Vokes. One poor clearing punch from the Chelsea goalkeeper could have proved costly on 17 minutes when the ball fell to Robbie Brady, who was not far away from marking his first appearance in 10 months with a goal when his skimming volley whistled by the post. READ ALSO Federer wins 99th title At the other end, Joe Hart looked more assured as he showed sharp reactions to tip Alvaro Morata’s header over the crossbar; a skilfull effort from the Spaniard as he diverted Barkley’s wayward shot towards the top corner. In the absence of Hazard, Willian was the Chelsea’s go-to man and he relished the responsibility, and the space afforded to him on the left flank, striking the base of the post on 21 minutes following a through-ball from Morata. The woodwork spared Burnley only for a minute as the Spaniard put the visitors into a 22nd-minute lead with the help of a perfectly-weighted pass from Barkley, poking the ball beyond Hart for his third goal in his last five matches. Burnley spurned a decent chance to immediately draw level as James Tarkowski headed over from a corner but they otherwise spent the remainder of the first half on the back foot. Pedro, who replaced Hazard in Chelsea’s starting lineup, limped off after half an hour, allowing Ruben Loftus-Cheek the chance to stake his claim for more Premier League minutes, having again found himself on the bench after his European hat-trick. Morata had a couple of chances to double his tally and Chelsea’s lead before the half-time whistle, dragging a shot wide from eight yards out after skilfully turning away from Tarkowski, and latching onto Jorginho’s pass with a powerful volley which Hart did well to block.