This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Tony John, Port Harcourt and Paul Osuyi, Asaba A Court of Appeal in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, has ordered that the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, be served court process in a matter between Senator Ahmed Makarfi and Alhaji Amodu Sheriff over the national leadership crisis rocking the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The Appeal Court has also fixed November 22 to commence hearing of motions on the ongoing factionalisation of the party. The court adjourned after issues of improper service were  raised by  lawyers in the matter. The Presiding Judge of Court 1 ordered both  counsel for  Senator  Makarfi-led PDP,  Oladeji Laminkara and the Sheriff-led faction,  Adeniyi Akintola to ensure they serve the Inspector General of Police before the next adjourned date. Meanwhile, some members of the party  in Delta State have denounced the two factions. The party loyalists under the aegis of Save Isoko South PDP said their interest was to reverse and correct the wrongs done during the last PDP congress across various wards in Isoko South Local Government Area of the state. Coordinator of the group, Mr. Dickson Egbare said at the end of an emergency meeting held at Irri that they were not part of any faction in the lingering crisis that has polarised the party into two factions from the national to the ward levels. “We met in continuation to our agenda to save the PDP Isoko South Local Government Area chapter. There was an issue raised concerning which faction the group belongs; and it was made clear that this group does not belong to any faction. “We are not factional but only trying to reverse and correct the wrongs except otherwise; then we can take a drastic decision on what next to do. “So we are aware of several swearing-ins going on but as a group, we are not party to any faction and we are not also in any form of faction even at the local government level. “Rather we are aggrieved and we are seeking redress because we are a complete body of the PDP who wants to right the wrongs now and against the future,” he maintained. He urged members of the group to remain steadfast as some key leaders were already working round the clock to restore justice, adding that those who defected in the wake of the congress would soon return. Egbare commended Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Solomon Ogba and Ross Uredi on their roles in responding to the group’s agitation, adding that some influential persons have started making moves to harmonize party executives at the wards and the local government.